286
I. lrraine, tointroducethesubjectof integration andtoengage
thestudmts immediately.‘I'hegoal was tobeﬁn aforum for
discussing the issues that would inevitably arise throughout
the two-year program.
Both methods were tried and menace showﬁ that the
former option — having Lorraine start with other students --—
was philosophically eam'er to live with hut did not allow for
ﬁscussion of the prqram. It leﬁ the students gene: ally
perplexm and, as a consequence, unhelpful. While the other
option meant that Lorraine was beingdismmsed without being
premnt, it worked best for the smdents.
lt was not altogether surprising to learn that the students,
having had very little expmure to people with mental handi-
mps (many recalled the spedal class at the end of the hall or
the few students who took gym with them in high school), had
many questions. Their comfort level was not very high. They
wanted to ask bmic questions such as “How do you say Hi?“
and they wanted to ask them without inhibition and without
worrying that they might hurt Lon-aine’s feelings. It is inter-
esﬁng, on the other hand, that the students themselves
questioned the ethim of starting class without Lorraine.
Out of that ﬁrst discussion on relations with Lorraine, a
core of students came forward who were willing to meet once
a month with Lorraine and someone from CICE to talk
through problems, listen to her concerns and get to know one
another better. Those group meeting provided an important
outlet, espmelly for identifying potential diﬁculties before they
hwame pmblems. Gradually, those studentsbegan totake on the
rwponsibility of ensuring that Lorraine was gettingthe notes she
needed and keeping her hinders organized, and they made sure
that she ordered the class sweatshirt before the deadline. Sensi-
tive to her longing to feel connected, they began to extend
invitations to lunch and to an aerobim elm which coincided with
their spare period. And they began to delight in her growing selll
assuredness and accomplishments. Nor was Lorraine the only
one beneﬁtting ti-om these group meetings. They were becoming
Cmwcmrc CANADIAN Scuoots __. g _ _
2 5 ix

