95
shared stories, concerns, ideas and plans for the future. The
atmosphere of this ﬁrst meetingwas one of caring and sharing;
it was both exciting and rejuvenating.
After emu left that evening, and as I sat alone in my
living room, I was ﬁlled with a new, warm, safe feeling. I wasn’t
alone at all. I knew then that everything was going to be
alright It was a wonderful feeling to ﬁnally share and discuss
how I felt —my ﬁustrations, worries, thoughts and actions -
with other people who understood. It lifted the weight off my
shoulders.
The group was immediately active, following the burnim
issue of intemation, and keeping up-to-date on progress,
esmdally in the school system. We prepared and mailﬁ
documents to the school district, informing them of the forma-
tion of our pmt group. In our letter, we spoke of our support
for their endeavours to integrate children with exceptional
needs into the regular school system.
A formal presentation to the school board was the next
item on our agenda. As the designated leader of the parent
support group I was responsible for the presentation: the ﬁrst
one I'd ever Qven! Despite my nervousness, the response was
tremendous; our neport of our expectations drew the attention
of many school board members and the media. We continued
to attend school board meetings and were called upon to
discuss and comment on other school policies.
The years were both positive and rewarding, not only for
our family but for our commrmity. The parent group con-
tinued, becoming a united voice, a resoume to other parents
and to the community, and a source of strength for one
another. Because we stow together we saw many signiﬁcant
and exdting changes in our schools and our community.
The most important outcome of our efforts was that Mandy
was permanently integrated into the regular school system in
Onomocto, New Brunswick. Integration meant that she be-
came a part of one school system that exists for all children. It
provided the opportunity for her to learn, to partidpate and to
g _. Cm-moms Cmnnmu Scnoors
Q1!

