38
"m%d” could learn. Eventually, thm clmes and schools
became apartofthepublicedumtion systemandanew
prdession d"‘special edumtorfem-gedtooperate them.
Aﬁerthedevelopmentofeducationisinthe 1950s
and 1960s, most community service assodnﬁons moved m to
establish group bomu and sheltered worhhow. In rm 1970s
and 1980s,se1vicesproﬁt'eratedatthe1ocallevelacross
Canada. In additim to the establishment of education,
rom'dential and vocational pregame, there were explomms in
the areasofmation, familysuppm-t, andearlyintermtim
'I‘he goal of most services was to support individuals with
a mental hanﬁcap to live in the community ratMr than in
instiuitions. However, while the new servim were physically
“in” the community, they operatd as independent enﬁtiw
withnolinkstotheparallelgenericservicesiorthecommnnity
at large.
Although the parents’ movement can be credited with the
birth of special education for students with mt intellectual
disability, by the 1980s it apmared their vision had outgown
their initial achievements. It had bwn n%sary to institute
an intermediate system of programs to overcome total
exclusion; however, programmed childhood wm leading to
manned adulthood. The spw'al educaﬁon system, which
had been developed to prepare children to be part of their
communities and to eliminate the need for
institutimlization, was in fact preparing people for lives of
isolation. They were moving into goup homes, worﬁng in
sheltered workshops and still being marphalized fmm the rest
of the community. By the mid 1980s, there was a pervasive
dissatisfaction with the mgregated service system in the
community. It was time to move onward and upward.
The naﬁonal voluntary organizaﬁon, begun by parents at
the local level in the late 1940s, had been incorporated at the
naﬁonal level in 1958. It had exmnded to incluk not only
parents and other family members, but professionals worﬁng
in the ﬁeld, other interested citizens and, most remntly,
Cmwcmc Cmmmu Scrnoons _ _ _.__l 1. ._
.-l £3

