267
Changer in Sue’: Life
Sue’speerswercnottheon1yonestoch%overtheyear.
Suehlifechangedaswell. She wentfmmbeingalonetohaving
a gmup ct‘ peers wbocared about what she was doingevery day
and who actively participated in maﬁng her life better. Sue
went from living without many meaningful social interactions
to being involved in acﬁve friendships.
One student told a stm'y about Sue sharing something she
enioyed. Sue had gone over to this particular student, put her
arm around her, and dirmted her over to where she was
Bstening to some music. The student said, “At the ﬁrst of the
year me did not want me around her. Now she actually enjoys
seeing me.” Another student spoke of the changes in Sue. ‘She
has calmed down. I knew her when she was in kindergarten.
She has now learned how to treat other people.”
At the some ﬁme, them were difﬁcultim over the year.
Kevin spoke of Sue coming over to him and hitting him in the
face. When we sat and talked about the incident, he shrugged
and said, "I was at the wrong place at the wrong time.” I had
expected th'm experience to frighten him away but it didn’t
seem to deter him from resolving to he with Sue. We learned
later h-om his parents that because of Kevin's acceptance of
Sue they did not contact the school about the incident. Previ-
ously, this inddent would have called into quesﬁon whether or
not Sue would have been allowed to stay in the school. Having
a peer advocate for her changed the parent’s perception of the
seriousnms of the incident. In turn, the parents did not
demand that the school mediate the situation. The bonds of
friendship brought out Sue's pmitive attributes which made
the student want to mediate on her behalf. If she was identiﬁed
only as a hitter or a kicker the student may have wanted the
school to deal with the behaviour.
We came to realize that before the students became
involved, Sue’s behaviour would have resulted in students
staying away from her while adults intervened. It became
obvious that peers, by becoming involved, looked past her
 ,, Cmnomc Cmmomu Scnoots
267

