77
system-matted with dune superﬁcial concessions to pupil-
centred practice.
lnasystem-centredschool,theevaluat.ion schemes,suchas
tests, marks and grades, are mainly “norm-rellerenwd”. This
means they are based on the abilities and achievements of
“average” or ‘&aormal" pupils at each grade level. Teachers
must teach for these “normal” pupils whether they want to or
not, and many good teachers would rather not. Very good
pupils become bored and pupils with a mental handicap are
bound to fail. In other words, pupils must adapt to ﬁt the
system; if they do not, or cannot, they suffer the consequences.
As we discovered, for a school system to follow our ﬁrst
prindple and adapt structure and curriculum to the pupil, it
must change its whole way ofomrating and become “criterion-
referenced”. In a criterion-referenced school. the evaluation
scheme is based on the abilities of individual pupils. Brilliant
pupils are expected to do more than the “average” pupil and are
evaluated according to whether their work matches their
abilities. The majority of pupils work at roughly the same level
and are evaluated accordingly. The pupil with a mental
handicap is given work at his or her level and is evaluated
according to whether or not he or she does the work well. In this
way the pupil with a mental handicap can succeed as well as
any other pupil because he or she is required to do only what
he or she actually can do. This system allows forall pupils who
nequire an adapted curriculum to receive it, not just the pupils
with a mental handicap, removing some of the stigma
assodated with an adapted curriculum.
During our eﬂhrts, Rosi and I also discovered that we
weren’t alone; many progressive thinkers and educators
shared our ideas. Teachers, administrators, school board
trustees and researchers are coming tounderstand that future
national prosperity and social justice depend on maximizing
the potential of each pupil. This means ensuring that each
pupil gets the best education he or she is capable of acquiring,
which is achieved by making our school systems more pupil-
 , at _ - g ,4 Cmwcnvc Campus Saioors
61

