~~scheduld to take their case to court.~~ However, oounselforthe
school hoard approached the Rebichauds about agreement on
a settlement, and, like the Elwoods, the Robiehauds were sue
temachapeementonlydaysbeforetheircasewastobeheard
in court The settlement provided that Nathalie Robichaud,
likeLukeElwood,reeeiveinstructionina1egularclassroomin
a neighbourhood school with non-disabled mm. Unfor-
tunately, the Rofichauds, like the Elwoods, were lett Impen-
siblefortheirlegelexpensmwhiletaxpmeovemdtheeosts
incurred by the school hoard and their am'mistrators.
Theltofiehauds were forced toturntotheoourtsbeeause
New Brunawick’s franeophone school boards and the
francophone fivimon of the deparment of education haveheen
perceived as taking a more traditional approach to integra-
tion. The Enoncé dc principe aw‘ l’int@rotion seolaire, devel-
oped by department ofidals and issued to school beards.
provides for a “eonfinuum of service” based on the Casmde
model mentioned above. It is most ofien interpreted to mean
that a smdent may be integrated only when it is clear the
student mu 'henefit" from the class. In other words, the
burden of prmf rests with the student who must show “readi-
ness” fir intepation (Department of Edumtion, 1988b).
Both the Robichaude and the Elwnods began their legal
appeals afier the equality rights provisions of the Canadian
Charter of Rights and Freedoms came into efiect in 1985. The
Charter provided them with a legal basis for their demands
that had not existed previously (Boles 0. %rd of School
Trustees, 1984). Since both easa were settled out of mutt,
their resolutions do not have the weight of court dedsions.
However, the fact that two diﬂenent school boards in two
provinces eapitulated mmpletely to parent demand at the
eleventh hour seems to indicate their expectation that, faced
with the Charter, they would lose in the eourtreem. Additional
litigation by parents in the eoming decade will be newary to
establish clear jurispruknoe in this eontentious area.
Cmmomc Cmsoem Scnoors g , g _ ,_______
L5
{J1

