16.3
Provide Tim for Visitation: and Observation:
Mmt educators felt that the schod adminisnetors should
t‘acilitatestaﬂ'vim'tstoohmrvecla%ofteacherswhohave
expel-‘mace in inmgraﬁng exceptional students. The educators
also indicated that it was important for the school administra-
mrs to advomte at the disnict level hr teacher visitations. In
additim, t-M principle should arrange the visitaﬁons and M
in ﬁrm contact with other 
Teachers said they md a peat deal of mowledge from
these viﬁts. They also felt rewarded by their principal when
they were given the opportunity to visit on a school day and
learn from their oolleagum.
One case involved two students with severe disabilities
who were being edumted in a sepegated class. The staﬂ'
considered them to he too severely handicapped to he inte-
gratMintoregularc1%.Theprincipalwantedtohavethese
students mrticipate in the regular class but knew his staﬂ‘
needed assurance that this was pmible and beneﬁdal. He
contacted a principal in another school district where a stu-
dent with similar neem was integrated in a Grade 6 class.
Arrangements were made for two teachers to visit this school.
By vim‘ting the Grade 6 class and meeting with the principal,
classroom teacher, and methods and resource teacher, the two
visiting teachers were able to see the pmsihilities for intege-
ticm in their school Upon their return, the informaﬁon gleaned
from their visitation helped the principal and the teachers to
iniﬁate the integration process for their two students.
Provide Scheduled Preparation Time
The methods and resource and classroom teachers were sup-
portive of principals who planned for and scheduled additional
preparation ﬁme for them. This was done in a variety of ways.
For example, one principal developed an extensive integration
plan and presented it as a school pﬂect. She requested
additional supply teacher days for her staﬂ' so that the cl ass-
room and methods and resource teachers could meet on a
_._ Cu/wcmc CANADIAN Scuoors
Hit}

