// bers, friends and advocates. -> page 75
In the Elwood case, Luke was in his neighbourhood school during the year befone his trial, and his fellow students and classroom
teacher became his greatest allies. The evidence given by people closest to the child ran contrary to the position taken by
the school board, which no doubt inspired the school board to settle.

In cases where the minister of education was implicated, the politics of the situation became critical. In the Margaret Eggert
case, wide-spread positive media coverage exerted suffcient political pressure to inï¬‚uence the decision in favour of the child.
In the Alexandra Hysert case, the attorney general saw that the government policy on integation ran counter to the position
adopted in its defense to the child's claim. The emberrassment of the inconsistency compelled the government to change sides,
leaving the school hoard disempowered.

In order for segregation, both _dejure_ and _de facto_, to be dismantled, it must he challenged on all fronts. While segregation
persists, the non-disabled community will never have the opportunity to relate to people with disabilities as full and 
participating citizens. One has only to visit a truly integrated school, speak to one of the educators responsible for the
implementation of an equality setting, or meet with any of the students benefitting from a situation where all children are
included, to truly appredate the result. There are some Canadian jurisdictions that provide outstanding models.

As long as people must struggle in courts for inclusion, others will continue to see disability as something negative and treat
people with disabiliï¬es differently. The stereotypical impression of people with disabilities, that they must qualify to be
anything but excluded and devalued, will continue to be the norm.

School board administrators and ministers of education must realize that legally sanctioned segregation has rendered people with
mental handicaps powerless and disadvantaged. 
//The equality requirement in the _Charter_ is intended to, and -> page 77
