While the law and policy just described for New Brunswick
is clearly the most supportive of integration in Canada, it has
not eliminated legal disputes over placement decisions. At the
same time that teachers in New Brunswick were expressing
grave concern about the effects of integration, one family was
fighting the same battle for their daughter´s access to a regular
class that the Elwoods had fought two years before in Nova Scotia. 
In this case, a legal challenge was made to seek compliance with
a law the parents believed was consistent with the *Charter*.
Joe and Anne Robichaud had been unhappy for some time with their daughter 
Natha1ie´s placement in a special class. As they saw integration
initiated in more and more schools in New Brunswick, they were
increasingly anxious that things should change for her as well. In
the fall off 1987, they arranged for her to attend a regular class but,
when things did not go well, they concluded that school officials
were not willing to do what was necessary to improve the situation,
and they withdrew her from school. Nathalie spent very little time
in school during the 1987-88 school year but the Robichauds declined
repeated suggestions from school administrators that she return to a
segregated class. As the 1988 fall term moved on with Nathalie still
out of school, the Robichauds reluctantly pursued a legal remedy to
their situation.

Developments in the Robichaud case followed closely the pattern of
the Elwood case. In December 1988, Joe and Anne Robichaud filed suit
against the school board. An injunction was obtained in January 1989
ordering that Nathalie be immediately placed in a regular class until
the case could go to full trial. As a result, Nathalie Robichaud,
like Luke Elwood, attended a regular class while the legal manoeuvring
went on in the background. In June 1989, several weeks after the
Spechial Committee of Lagislators received its mandate to review progress
toward integration, the Robichauds were scheduled to take their case to court.
