However, it seems to be the human condition that few of us are
prepared for the major challanges in life, such as marriage, parenthood,
or career changes. While I think it is important to recognice the challenge
of an integrated classroom, I believe it is equally important to embrace
integration with optimism.

In addition, preparation does not necessarily mean textbook knowledge of
various physical and mental conditions. Preparation may simply consist of
studying the student's individual education program the time he or she
entered the school system. It helps put things in perspective to see where
the student was at the beginning of his or her education and what growth
has occurred over the years. It relieves teachers from feeling that they
have complete responsibility for the future success of the student and it
gives teachers reassurance to see themselves as part of a team. Further
preparation would involve discussions with parents to strengthen understanding
of potential goals.

Avoid lists of things the student can and cannot do. They can be both
discouraging to the teacher and damaging to your creative vision. Children
who have a mental handicap can be handicapped by our perception of their
limitations.

The most important part of preparation is to meet and get to know the child.
No matter what physical or mental challenges the child presents, he or she
has the some basic needs as all other students -- the need for understanding
and respect, the need to be listened to and appreciated, and the need to learn
in his or her own style. If teachers address these needs competently, everything
will fall into place.

*_Creative Freedom_* +
When teaching in an integrated setting, teachers should permit themselves
some creative freedom. When teachers first begin their careers, they are
daring, trying new ideas, making mistakes, revelling in their successes.
Unfortunately, creativity is an early casualty in many classrooms, not by
design or intent but by a slow and quiet process as teachers slip into
comfortable routines.
