His picture was used for identification. The students took turns reading
aloud material on Sir Wilfred Laurier. Students with reading difficulties
were given short sections with fairly easy vocabulary. The student with a
serious speech problem due to a brain injury was asked occasionally to
choose the next reader. In checking for learning, a number of students
were asked to name the first French-Canadian prime minister. After a few
students answered correctly, the student with the speech difficulty was
asked the same question but only had to say his lastname. She he was also
expected to identify his picture from the pictures of prime ministers
posted around the room. For seatwork she was given a picture of Laurier
with his name written under it and another sheet with the same picture and
a blankspace under it. She was required to write his name in the space.
This met two objmtives established for her:

. learning the main concept; and
. improving her printing skills.

When the class was tested she was expected to complete a test as well.
(Linda Fanning, 1989)

*Lesson:* Social Studies +
*Topic:* Chinese Culture +
*Grade:* 9

In studying the culture of China, students were divided into groups to
research different aspects of Chinese culture. Each group was expected to
do a written account of their topic, complete a visual presentation
illustrating pertinent points, do an oral presentation to teach material
to the class, and develop, administer, and evaluate a short quiz on the
material. Students were divided into groups based on their individual
skills and abilities. An attempt was made to have heterogeneous grouping.
The student with more severe learning difficulties was placed in a group
with very supportive students. This group dealt with the economy of China.
Her part involved doing a poster on different forms of currency. She was
responsible for knowing the types of money on the poster and assisting
when the class presented the information.
// She felt --> page 214
