// anything to do with you except the people that you have daily contact with.
// So you don't make friends there. You don't know how to conduct yourself appropriately.<- page 13
  
*The second section*, Parent and Self-Advocacy is a glimpse into the
personal drama that lies behind years of legal action and lobbying driven
by parents who persistently challenged established systems. As with other
aspects of the comunity living movement, parents were major players in
the efforts to open schools to children traditionally excluded from
regular classrooms.

In the 1970s and '`80s, parents of children with a mental handicap began
to develop higher expectations for the lives of their children than had
traditionally been dictated by the medical profession. These parents
wanted alternatives to segregated education and they became involved in
"`early intervention`", new methods of stimulating their children and
discovering and building on their children's capacity to learn. In
following through on their expectations and seeking opportunities for
their sons and daughters, parents were thrust into leadership roles. They
organized parents`' groups, chaired lobbying committees and confronted
school boards and education ministries.

The personal perspectives of the contributors demonstrate
not only their courage and conviction in these challenging roles.
They also reveal the extent of their involvement in the politics and
complexities of the education systems as they met with resistance
and worked to understand and untangle a mass of bureaucracy.
It was often the case that they were lobbying for concepts which
people in the education system had not yet begun to consider.  

*The third section*, Innovations and Practical Applications
describes the fruits of these parents`' efforts -- inclusion in action.
As the education system has begun to adapt to demands for inclusion, new
approaches have evolved at all levels. The chapters  in this section are
written by people with first-hand experience in implementing inclusive
programs through the development and pursuit of important strategies for
teachers, school administrators and special education professionals.




