Most often team members have helped to solve particular dificulties that
arise in the classroom environment. At other times the team members have
helped teachers prepare for integrating exceptional students or have assisted
in establishing a student's individual educational plan. Some administrators
stressed that during the formative years, the principal should act as chairperson
of the teacher assistant team (TAT). Once the TAT is running smoothly, the
principal should remain on the team but not necessarily as chairperson.
Many school administrators indicated that they had included as team members
teachers who had not been accepting of the integration process. They often
found that participation in the team process helped change these teachers`'
attitudes and behaviour.

Another factor emphasized by school administrators who had established TATs
in their schools was scheduling of team meetings. It was felt that, whenever
possible, team meetings should be scheduled during the school day rather
than before or after school. There was also agreement that reasonable time
limits be established and adhered to for these meetings. As one administrator
stated, "`People appreciate knowing that the TAT session will end on time,
and usually are not opposed to staying after school if they have participated
in making the decision about the meeting time.`"

*_Increase Parent Involvement_* +
Many educators identified the parents of exceptional students as primary
sources of support in the integration process. All people agreed that effective
parent-teacher communication was an important component in making integration
work.

In order to have a strong working relationship with parents, principals
should establish procedures to allow parents to be involved in their child's
educational plan. Parents should be involved in decision making and they
should participate in the planning team. Parents should also be invited
to visit and observe the class, especially when there is a difference between
how the student is performing at school and at home.

