//behalf. <-- page 289
Justifiably suspicious that he was in for something completely different,
he arrived the first day with his Walkman. He kept the earphones pluged
in for several weeks while he assessed his new situation. It must have
been bewildering returning to school after having been in the
"`workplace`", and suddenly having to learn what was considered
acceptable behaviour in a college setting, and having to assimilate the
dress code and the constant socializing.
Gradually he became more comfortable as the students got to know him.
Some said "`Hi`", others helped him write letters to his favourite uncle,
still others talked hockey scores with him.
A few insisted he improve his math skills by joining them at cards. Not
immune to the flirting and sexuality so much apart of the atmosphere, his
first year was replete with crushes and frustration at unrequited love.

For a time he chose to work in the parking lot with the attendant.
Between accepting parking fees and waving through people with permits he
and the attendant chatted about the weather, the latest politician
involved in a scandal, sporting highlights and weekends. When both men
left the college they saw no good reason for these conversations to end
and they have been friends since.

*_The Transition to the Workplace_* +
The training, skills and personal contacts that come with a quality
integrated educational experience lead to greater employment opportunities.
Post-secondary settings are natural places for students to make the
transition from school to the workplace. Students everywhere leave high
school and decide to further their education, thereby gaining some time
to mature, broaden their base of experience, and make decisions about
their interests before considering the issue of work.

*_Evaluating Success_* +
As the Humber program moves towards stability and permanence,
administrators and faculty members have expressed
interest in what the students are actually learning in class; they claim
to see the social value of integration, but they can't always he certain
about the educational value.




