*_Changes in Sue's Life_* +
Sue's peers were not the only ones to change over the year. Sue's life
changed as well. She went from being alone to having a group of peers who
cared about what she was doing every day and who actively participated in
making her life better. Sue went from living without many meaningful
social interactions to being involved in active friendships.

One student told a story about Sue sharing something she enjoyed. Sue had
gone over to this particular student, put her arm around her, and directed
her over to where she was listening to some music. The student said, "`At
the first of the year she did not want me around her. Now she actually
enjoys seeing me.`" Another student spoke of the changes in Sue. "`She
has calmed down. I knew her when she was in kindergarten. She has now
learned how to treat other people.`"

At the some time, there were difficulties over the year. Kevin spoke of
Sue coming over to him and hitting him in the face. When we sat and talked
about the incident, he shrugged and said, "`I was at the wrong place at
the wrong time.`" I had expected this experience to frighten him away but
it didn't seem to deter him from resolving to be with Sue. We learned
later from his parents that because of Kevin's acceptance of Sue they did
not contact the school about the incident. Previously, this incident
would have called into question whether or not Sue would have been allowed
to stay in the school. Having a peer advocate for her changed the parent's
perception of the seriousness of the incident. In turn, the parents did
not demand that the school mediate the situation. The bonds of friendship
brought out Sue's positive attributes which made the student want to
mediate on her behalf. If she was identified only as a hitter or a kicker
the student may have wanted the school to deal with the behaviour.

We came to realize that before the students became involved, Sue's
behaviour would have resulted in students staying away from her while
adults intervened. It became obvious that peers, by becoming involved,
looked past her
behaviour to see her as a person who had a bad temper.



