//"retarded" could learn. <- page 45
Eventually, these classes and schools became a part of the public
education system and a new profession of "`special educators`" emerged
to operate them.  

After the development of education programs in the 1950s and 1960s, most
community service associations moved on to establish group homes and
sheltered workshops. In the 1970s and 1980s, services prolierated at the
local level across Canada. In addition to the establishment of education,
residential and vocational programs, there were explosions in the areas
of recreation, family support, and early intervetion.   

The goal of most services was to support individuals with a mental
handicap to live in the community rather than in instiuitions.
However, while the new services were physically "`in`" the community,
they operated as independent entities with no links to the parallel
generic services for the community at large.  

Although the parents`' movement can be credited with the birth of special
education for students with an intellectual disability, by the 1980s it
appeared their vision had outgrown their initial achievements. It had
been necessary to institute an intermediate system of programs to
overcome total exclusion; however, programmed childhood was leading to
programmed adulthood. The special education system, which had been
developed to prepare children to be part of their communities and to
eliminate the need for institutionalization, was in fact preparing people
for lives of isolation. They were moving into group homes, working in
sheltered workshops and still being marginalized from the rest of the
community. By the mid 1980s, there was a pervasive dissatisfaction with
the segregated service system in the community. It was time to move
onward and upward.  

The national voluntary organization, begun by parents at the local level
in the late 1940s, had been incorporated at the national level in 1958.
It had expanded to include not only parents and other family members, but
professionals working in the field, other interested citizens and, most
recently, persons who themselves had been considered mentally handicapped.
