*_Provide Time for Visitations and Observations_*
Most educators felt that the school administrators should facilitate staff
visits to observe classes of teachers who have experience in integrating
exceptional students. The educators also indicated that it was important
for the school administrators to advocate at the district level for teacher
visitations. In addition, the principals should arrange the visitations and
be in direct contact with other principals.

Teachers said they gained a great deal of knowledge from these visits. They
also felt rewarded by their principal when they were given the opportunity
to visit on a school day and learn from their colleagues.

One case involved two students with severe disabilities who were being educated
in a segregated class. The staff considered them to be too severely handicapped
to he integrated into regular classes.The principal wanted to have these
students participate in the regular class but knew his staff needed assurance
that this was possible and beneficial. He contacted a principal in another
school district where a student with similar needs was integrated in a Grade 6
class. Arrangements were made for two teachers to visit this school. By
visiting the Grade 6 class and meeting with the principal, classroom teacher,
and methods and resource teacher, the two visiting teachers were able to see
the possibilities for integration in their school. Upon their return, the
information gleaned from their visitation helped the principal and the teachers to
initiate the integration process for their two students.

*_Provide Scheduled Preparation Time_*
The methods and resource and classroom teachers were supportive of principals
who planned for and scheduled additional preparation time for them. This was
done in a variety of ways. For example, one principal developed an extensive
integration plan and presented it as a school project. She requested additional
supply teacher days for her staff so that the classroom and methods and resource
teachers could meet on a regular basis during the school day for planning and
preparing adaptive lessons and materials.
