This is because of a persisting utilitarian philosophy which assumes the
greatest good for the greatest number of people is achieved when educators
target students with the maximum potential for contributing to the
maintenance of the social and economic order.  

Equality is sacrificed in the face of expidiency and efficiency.
Fundamental values and the contributions from people with different
intellectual abilities are of no value within that framework. Therefore
education, like other institutions in late twentieth century society, has
become a political activity.  

==== THE NEED FOR RESTRUCTURING
Educators, students, administrators are caught up in this predicament. 
It is still impossible to make square blocks fit into round holes.
Education integration is now little more than a process of putting
students with disabilities in classrooms where the structure ensures
failure for the majority of them, creating the dilemma that both
participating and not participating are disadvantageous. There is an
entire body of literature concerned with theories of education and special
education; all these works begin with premises that are counterproductive
to achieving real equality in the education system.  

The education system has, ultimately, helped "`educate`" society into a
form of blindness about how people with mental handicaps enrich and
enhance society. Much more creativity is needed if we hope to achieve
real learning and real understanding within the antiquated structure of
the education system. The system must do more than simply open its doors;
it must be restructured to value the contributions from persons with
disabilities, from women, and from people with different cultural experiences.
Governments will have to commit themselves to that process through the
provision of founds. And educators will have to be open minded and
innovative in teaching and addressing students. The contribution that
people with a mental handicap make to the education system will have to
be part of the reconstruction of the education system.
