//evaluation at individual skill levels. <-- page 206
It allows students choice in expressing the knowledge that they have gained.
It also meets students`' social and emotional needs as well as their
academic needs. Student involvement with peers is encouraged because of
the emphasis on cooperative learning. Permanent grouping is discouraged.
This strategy fosters social relations in the classroom which are important
in making all students feel a part of the group.

Multi-level instruction allows for participation of all students in the
learning process and an acceptance of each person's contribution. It develops
and encourages the concept of self-worth in all students. Increased motivation
through the involvement of students in the activities of the classroom
makes classroom management easier.

The thought and planning needed to determine the underlying concept of the
material should result in a more meaningful curriculum. Teachers will be
aware of why something is being taught and will focus on helping students
understand various concepts, rather than on memorization of material.

*_TRAINING CLASSROOM TEACHERS_* +
Today's classroom teachers realize that many styles of education will be
neccessary to meet the needs of the variety of learners in their classroom.
Multi-level instruction is but one way to meet these needs. In order to
develop this skill, teachers require some initial training.
However, the main components of training in multi-level instruction are
time and practice in developing lesson plans that incorporate strategies
to allow for inclusion.

In two particular school districts, training for classroom teachers was
provided in the following way:

. Principals were asked to select one or two teachers who: a) would be
willing to train other teachers; b) were at present showing some success
with inclusion strategies; and c) were well respected by other staff
members for their competency. These teachers formed a cadre to be trained
and later to provide training to the rest of the staff.
