In our province, proponents of special education in universities simply
deny that all children can be included in regular classes, even in the face
of concrete examples that inclusion can work.
[%hardbreaks]
==== Support from Research
Another myth is that research supports traditional special education.
We looked at some of the research used to support special education
and found that it was poorly disigned, poorly interpreted and not relevant
to existing reality. In fact, research today shows that it supports
integration rather than segregation for students with a disability.

Parents should question the quality and validity of education research
in general. Science is not objective and research experiments are
designed to produce the results the researcher wants to produce.
Experiments are carried out by people to get degrees, jobs, promotions
or professional status. In addition, education is an intensely personal
interaction between people whose moods and attitudes vary from minute
to minute. The use of adaptations of scientific methods designed to study
inanimate things seems inadequate for the study of education.
[%hardbreaks]
==== The Holes in the Cascade Theory
Special education generally supports the model of a continuum of learning
environments from total segregation to total integration in the regular
classroom. Pupils are supposed to progress along this continuum towards
the regular classroom, which they are supposed to reach eventually but
never do. This is the Cascade model, which it would be more appropriate
to call the "`anywhere but in the regular classroom`" model. It is incredibly
wasteful because the many different learning environments must be staffed
by special education personnel and pupils must be brought in from far and
wide to provide the required numbers at each level. The real figures show
that most of the movement in the cascade is from less segregated
environments to more segregated environments and that it is unusual for
a pupil to progress successfully from a segregated environment to a
regular classroom.

