==== THE LEGAL AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT OF INTEGRATION

Since 1986 and the passage of Bill 85, many school districts in New Brunswick
have integrated exceptional students in regular classrooms. However, integration
was in effect for a number of years in NewBrunswick prior to Bill 85 and,
as a result, teachers and principals developed ways to implement integration
and make it successful for their own situations. They drew on various sources
of expertise including workshops, books, articles, visitations, courses,
sharing sessions, and practical experiencies. Even before Bi1l 85, professional
development in integration ranged from visitations outside of New Brunswick
to individual consultations with teachers and administrators.

In 1986 and 1988, a series of regional workshops on integration were sponsored
by the New Brunswick Department of Education. The series consisted of three
workshops in 1986, attended by 104 classroom teachers, methods and resource
teachers link:/CCS/en/EN-Changing_Canadian_Schools-110{outfilesuffix}[(see Chapter 8)],
and school and district administrators; and four workshops in 1988 with 170
educators in attendance. The main purposes of these workshops were: 1) to
provide training to teachers; 2)to share experiences; and 3) to problem-solve.

Following the second series of regional workshops, a provincial meeting on
integration was held in March 1988. It was attended by fifty-five classroom
teachers, methods and resource teachers and school administrators from across
the province. The participants were selected for their experience in the integration
process; they could provide useful information to other educators working
towards integration. At this meeting the teachers and administrators shared
their experiences, discussed their needs and concerns, and helped one another
to solve specific problems.

At both the meeting and the workshops, people were asked what had been particularly
helpful to them in making integration work. In addition, similar information
was obtained from school administrators at a meeting of three districts held
in April 1990. The feedback has become useful as strategies and recommendations
for successful integration.
//Without a doubt, the school principal is one of the key --> page 160
