==== CONCLUSION
There are many questions still to be addressed, but it is an ongoing
process. We have learned to examine how we do things and discuss new
strategies to cope with the situations that arise over the school year.
This contrasts with our expectations of last year when we thought we
would somehow fix Sue. We acknowledge that she has behaviours that might
change, but will not disappear; on the other hand, the supports in place
make her behaviours less frightening.

If we are to make changes that support the existence of a variety of
learning styles and abilities within a single classroom, we have to be
prepared to change our notions about what is and is not feasible within
our classrooms. Gentle Teaching is one method of dispelling the mystique
that surrounds problem behaviours. We feel that this strategy is
compatible with our philosophy of equity and respect for all students.

Gentle Teaching is an attitudinal stance, but is deeply rooted in good
teaching techniques, which involve ensuring success with each learning
task as well as full participation and involvement. It is our contention
that the process of integration, the changes in methodology needed to
nurture it such as inclusion, collaboration, multi-level instruction, and
cooperative learning, and the Gentle Teaching philosophy are naturally
supportive of one another.

The two approaches used with Sue, Supportive Peer Relationships and
Gentle Teaching, have fostered the social inclusion of this most
challenging youngster in the regular classroom. They have given her the
opportunity for interdependence with her peers and a richer lifestyle
than most children like Sue have because of their actions. It is
important for her to have friends, rather than being a lonely person
defined solely in terms of her behaviour. Similarly, we have increased
the network of people who can work with Sue and with each other -- teachers,
peers and parents. In return, Sue has empowered us by increasing our
competency. She has shown
us that change is possible and that schools can do more to embrace
children regardless of their needs.



