Dr. Oliver Sachs, well known for his landmark work,
_Awakenings_ (1982), documented the 1988 students`' strike at Gallaudet
University in Washington, the world famous liberal arts college for the
deaf. In March of that year, when the presidential vacancy was about to
be filled, the students campaigned to have the first deaf president in
the school's 124 year history. According to Sachs`' eye-witness account,
in selecting the only hearing candidate and ignoring the depth of
conviction on this issue, the authorities were amused of being
paternalistic, of holding values based on an implicit view of incompetence
and of appearing to believe "`that deaf people should be printers, or
work in the post office, do '`humblejobs`' and not aspire to higher
education`" (Sachs, 1989).

Despite these attitudes, inclusive post-secondary education is making
headway in Canada. A community college in Toronto, a university in
Edmonton and a CEGEP(community college) in Montreal have been including
students with mental handicaps for several years now.

I was Coordinator of the Humber College Community Integration through
Cooperative Education (CICE) program in Toronto, Ontario, from 1984 to
1990. The program was designed to support educational opportunities at
college for individuals with a mental handicap -- the people for whom the
college doors had previously been shut.

As coordinator of the new program, I was immersed in the ideology and
culture of the college, learning about its history and values, and
listening to the language of education. I became convinced that these
students truly belonged there.

==== THE HUMBER PROGRAM: A STEP ON THE CONTINUUM OF INTEGRATION
A walk through Humber College on any given day reveals a noisy, animated
and colourful scene. Private conversations compete with aspiring DJs on
the student radio station. A preponderance of denim, T-shirts and leather
set the overall fashion tone. French fries and Diet Coke provide daily
sustenance to many of the 9,000 full-time day students.





