M&R teachers emphasized the need to know the parents well and to develop
a positive working relationship. Home visits are considered important,
particularly for parents who do not come to scheduled appointments at school.
It is important to let the parents know exactly what is happening with their
child in school to share the success and also discuss the difficulties that
are being experienced.

Parents typically have contact with the same M&R teacher over a number of
years, which may prevent parents from seeing that the classroom teacher
is responsible for the student's program. Most of the M&R teachers feel
that the special relationship they have with the parent is positive but are
concerned that the regular teacher and the parent develop a good relationship
based on confidence and trust. Among the strategies they use is to have
the regular teacher make the phone call to arrange a meeting and to have
the teacher chair the planning meetings. This shows that the teacher is in
charge of the child's education.

The relationship between high school teachers and parents seems weaker
than at other levels. High school teachers usually instruct five or six
classes a day and their relationships with individual students is superficial
compared to elementary and junior high teachers. As a result, the sense
of responsibility for the child's total program is not as developed. Making
the relationship even more difficult is the fact that many high school
teachers only contact parents when there is something wrong, such as when
the child isn't attending school regularly or has had a serious behavioural
incident. As a result, the relationship is based on negative events and
can be adversarial.

At the high school level, the M&R teacher assumes more responsibility for
the programs of students with more severe disabilities. This creates a problem
of transfer of identity:

//I'm still the one that parents call. The regular teachers haven't made any
//effort to get in touch with the parent --> page 131
