//were concerns that her life differed too much from that of her peers. <-- page 257
However, Sue's story illustrates that children with extremely challenging
behaviours can be fully integrated into the regular classroom. It is an
example of effective intervention strategies put in place to make a real
qualitative improvement in her relationships.

In finding effective approaches for Sue we came to see that the strategies
became a spark which made people re-evaluate other people and their
capabilities. The strategies we chose were Supportive Peer Relations and
Gentle Teaching. Both of these involved inviting children and adults to
participate in the social inclusion of Sue.

==== SUPPORTIVE PEER RELATIONSHIPS
*_Philosophy_* +
In order for children to develop, they must be involved in relationships.
Through relationships they acquire, by direct learning and adoption of
social roles, the attitudes, values, roles, competencies, and ways of
perceiving the world that are shared by their families, schools and
communities. Children who are not involved in caring and supportive
relationships tend to become increasingly alienated and disconnected from
people and activities in their families, schools and societies.

Fostering peer relationships is one means of promoting meaningful
interdependence. Peer relationships can provide feelings of support,
belonging, acceptance and caring. They give the opportunity to acquire
appropriate social roles, and they provide the sensitivity required to
build and maintain meaningful relationships. They enable the internalization
of values, attitudes, perspectives and goals needed for responsible
decision-making and long-term friendships that will provide assistance in
adult life.

In our schools and homes there has been a relative neglect of constructive
child-to-child relationships. There is often an adult-centric perspective
in which adults are seen as the only
people who can support and nurture children who are lonely, challenging
or in difficulty.





