250
Assigning Tasks
Patrick's teachm also created ways for Patrick to assist his
peers in their work in order that he could reciprocate the
assistance he received from them. Each student had a permnal
notebook which they wrote in everyday. The teacher pasted a
picture of the owner on each notebook and Patrick, who could
not mad, could then identify the picture, match the picture to
the person, and pass the notebooks out to his classmates. He
was also able to lend crayons and glue and other things he had
in his desk to a classmate who had learned to sign with him.
Not only was Patrick able to redprocate conventional greet-
ings and help in the classroom, he was practising some of his
individual academic goals as well, which included signing,
matching and student identiﬁcation. Behavioural gmls such
as moving quietly around the clam and passing out books
without pushing, prodding or hitting were also being practised
and achieved
Jane, a student in Grade 5 who could speak in short
phrases but who could not read or mite, was involved in a
Scrabble game the teacher devised to assist students in
practising spelling and vocabulary words. The teacher ex-
plained to the group that Jane was allowed to place up to ﬁve
letters around an eﬁsting word on the gameboard even though
sm could not really spell. The student to her right would ask
her what word she had createdbefore tallying her score. In this
way, Jane was involved in the vocabulary of the classroom and
she was expected tolearn. She was also made a vital part of the
classroom culture mcause the curriculum became a vehicle to
highlight her thoughts and interests, which she revealed in
the words she chose. This set the stage for the development of
friendships.
The teacher observed that J ane’s in-class relationships
were carried over into the playground. Even though Jane was
fairly unstable on her feet, she was invited tojump rope by the
students in her class. Several of the students demonstrated for
her and then took great pains to make sure that she got over
Cmmomc CANADIAN Scnoots _, ‘ ._,
25:1»

