However, counsel for the school board approached the Robichauds about
agreement on a settlement, and, like the Elwoods, the Robichauds were able
to reach agreement only days before their case was to be heard in court.
The settlement provided that Nathalie Robichaud, like Luke Elwood, receive
instruction in a regular classroom in a neighbourhood school with
non-disabled peers. Unfortunately, the Robichauds, like the Elwoods, were
left responsible for their legal expenses while taxpayeres covered the costs
incurred by the school board and their administrators.

The Robichauds were forced to turn to the courts because New Brunswick's
francophone school boards and the francophone division of the department
of education have been perceived as taking a more traditional approach to
integration. The _Enoncé de principe sur l'intégration scolaire_, developed
by department officials and issued to school boards, provides for a
"`continuum of service`" based on the Cascade model mentioned above.
It is most often interpreted to mean that a student may be integrated only
when it is clear the student can "`benefit`" from the class. In other words,
the burden of proof rests with the student who must show "`readiness`"
for integration (Department of Education, 1988b).

Both the Robichauds and the Elwoods began their legal appeals after the
equality rights provisions of the Canadian _Charter of Rights and Freedoms_
came into effect in 1985. The _Charter_ provided them with a legal basis
for their demands that had not existed previously (Bales vs. Board of
School Trustees, 1984). Since both case were settled out of court, their
resolutions do not have the weight of court decisions. However, the fact
that two different school boards in two provinces capitulated completely
to parent demand at the eleventh hour seems to indicate their expectation
that, faced with the _Charter_, they would lose in the courtroom. Additional
litigation by parents in the coming decade will be newary to establish
clear jurisprudence in this contentious area.
