Often in these classrooms there is greater freedom of movement and a mutually
agreed upon noise level.

Part of providing motivation includes designing activities which children
find interesting and challenging. As in any classroom, this requires
activities covering a wide range of abilities. Cooperative activities and
learning centres lend themselves well to multi-level lesson plans
//link:/CCS/en/EN-Changing_Canadian_Schools-192{outfilesuffix}[(see Chapter 11)].
(see Chapter 11).

The physical layout of the classroom can also be structured to promote
independence. All materials are organized and visible. Instructions for
centres and activities are posted. Specific places for completed assignments
are established, as are produceres for leaving the classroom, late arrivals,
and free time. At all times, students know what they me supposed to be doing.
While the teacher is responsible for designing, initiating and monitoring all
activities, everyone benefits as students become more independent.

*_Providing Role Models_* +
Probably one of the most important roles a teacher can play in an integrated
classroom is that of a model for his or her students. The teacher should
treat every member of the class with equal respect and show that he or she
values every student, including the special needs child.

This approach may feel unnatural, however, as teachers are in the business
of teaching, and are in the habit of constantly rewarding those who learn
well. It is understandable to have more respect for successful students and
to pay more attention to their ideas. In an integrated setting, however,
these teacher distinctions can be detrimental. Less successful students will
find someone who they consider to he worse off than themselves to bear the
brunt of their frustration -- and that may well be the student with a mental
handicap. As mentioned earlier, a sense of community is needed in the
classroom, and the teacher models the way community members should treat
each other.

//The teacher should include all children and make no --> page 183
