When integration is being initiated, a student may be placed in a Grade 8
class instead of a Grade 7 class because of particular Grade 8 students who
may be more supportive and helpful in including the student with special
needs. Initially, a teacher who is active in extracurricular activities
may feel more comfortable being responsible for including the student with
special needs in extracurricular activities rather than in classroom activities.

===== Use and Enhance Support Services
The teachers felt that school administrators should advocate at the school
board level for support personnel such as a methods and resource teachers
and para-professionals. They also indicated that the principal should organize
in-school support such as volunteer programs, peer support groups and resource
centres.

Once principals have established a variety of support structures within
their schools,teachers may be more willing to accept assistance from other
staff, using in-school services more readily. Initially, many teachers felt
challenged by the experience of integration, assuming it was totally up to
them to make integration successful. They hesitated to ask for help and often
the school administrators and other staff members were not sure how to help
their colleagues. Over time and with the establishment of additional school
resources, these teachers realized they didn't have to do it alone, and
there were other people available to help them solve problems.

Teachers identified their principal most frequently as the person to listen
to them and occasionally teach their class to give them an extra period
for planning. The methods and resource teacher was also identified as a
source of this assistance, as well as an aid in adapting curriculum and providing
additional resource materials. Once classroom teachers realized that the
principal was working to provide additional supports for them, they were
more likely to ask for help and less inclined to feel like failures because
they _did_ ask for that help.
