//know how you can handle all those children plus make provisions for a
//special needs student? <-- page 117

==== Personal Qualities
What qualities should an M&R teacher have? The overriding opinion is that
a person developing educational programs for students with special needs
in regular classrooms must be optimistic and have a positive approach,
particularly to their expectations of the student with a disability.

It is also necessary to have confidence that teachers inexperienced in
teaching students with special needs will respond to the challenge. Many
classroom teachers have been told for years that students with disabilities
require special instruction from special educators. That thinking is not
easily changed and calls for the M&R teacher to be naturally optimist and
positive in difficult situations.

Persistence is essential. "`You have to be willing to go the extra mile,
willing to spend a little bit of extra time, a little bit of extra energy
or effort to get ahead and do what has to be done. Longer hours, meetings
whenever the parent is available ... you have to be willing to dig for ideas
keep looking and reading.`"

M&R teachers have to work with a large number of people: teachers, administrators,
consultants, and parents. The ability to work well with others and to handle
interpersonal relationships effectively is another important part of the
job. One teacher described this as "`accepting people as they are and not
trying to change them entirely over to your way of doing things.`" One teacher
observed that she had to learn to act calm and easy-going and to be open
to different styles of operating. Her work as a regular class teacher had 
not prepared her for this and it required considerable adjustment. There
are many different personalities in a school, each reacting in their own
way to the suggestions made by the M&R teacher. The need to balance these
considerations against the need to push for changes and new approaches for
the student makes the position difficult:
