//nance to many of the 9,000 full-time day students. <-- page 281
Simulated hospital wards, greenhouses, computer centres, a new technology
wing, music practice studios, even a morgue leave a lasting impression
of the opportunities for learning.

Very much a part of this activity are students supported by CICE every
year. The fact that they are there is due to the efforts of one
persistent parent who strongly believe that his son and all other
children had the right to continue their education once they had
completed high school. He lobbied, wrote proposals, convened meetings
and eventually succeeded in wounding the college to test the waters in
1984.

Today, the eighteen students are supported by three faculty members, and
by students on field placement, volunteers and peer tutors. As part of
the admission procedure, applicants indicate their interests and are
connected with the college program best representing what they would like
to learn. A person who likes children could be linked with Early Childhood
Education; a sports fan might find like-minded students in the Recreation
Leadership Program; an interest in wood-working could lead to the
Cabinet-Making Program.
There is also an Audio-Visual Technicians program and a Cosmetic
Management comes. One student who uses a small computer to communicate
found a natural fit in the Journalism Program; another applicant said her
goal in coming to college was to work as a volunteer in a hospital; she
went into Nursing.

*_A Place for Acceptance_* +
These students are integrated into the complete two-year program which
they follow throughout their attendance at the college. They pay regular
tuition fees for which they receive student cards, library privileges
and access to the athletics centre.

They are students of Humber College in every sense. They identify
themselves, as do all students, by program ("`I'm taking Hospitality`"),
and their friends are the students engaged in the same pursuit, sharing
timetables and deadline pressures.








