// concept are of equal value. <-- page 200
What must be discouraged is the idea that the written word is the most
important way to express ideas, and that drawing or illustrating is done
only by students who are unable to express themselves in the more vital
written format. When all methods of expression considered of equal value
and all students are encouraged to express their views in different ways,
the students will begin to see all methods as having equal value.

Many teachers will have concerns related to the seeming de-emphasis on
reading and writing skills. The examples of alternate methods of student
performance are an attempt to emphasize different presentation techniques,
not to suggest that reading and writing be avoided. The intention is to
ensure that attempts are made through various teaching styles to reach
all students. All students should be able to appreciate and understand
the main idea taught. There is no attempt to suggest that students will
not be expected to read selections or write responses where appropriate.

However, some students will be unable to succeed with the prescribed
material, and alternate materials will have to be used so all students
can attempt similar activities. Many strategies can he used for reading
adaptations, including using textbooks or library books at a lower reading
level, taping books, highlighting pertinent materials in textbooks with
a coloured marker, providing study guides or outlines of the major concepts,
or rewriting material at a lower reading level (Schulz and Turnbull, 1984).
These methods still place an emphasis on reading and writing but at the
student's appropriate level.

*_Use of Bloom's Taxonomy_* +
Assignments should not only allow for different modes of presentation,
but should be written at different levels of Bloom's Taxonomy (Bloom, 1969).
That way, students who need to be challenged more than they are by the
regular curriculum will have activities at their level; and students who
have difficulty doing work at the grade level will have activities that
allow them to express their knowledge in a different format.
