That meant going in on the first day, without
Lorraine, to introduce the subject of integration and to engage the
students immediately. The goal was to begin a forum for discussing the
issues that would inevitably arise throughout the two-year program.

Both methods were tried and experience showed that the former option --
having Lorraine start with other students -- was philosophically easier
to live with but did not allow for discussion of the program. It left the
students generally perplexed and, as a consequence, unhelpful. While the
other option meant that Lorraine was being discussed without being
present, it worked best for the students.

It was not altogether surprising to learn that the students, having had
very little exposure to people with mental handicaps (many recalled the
special class at the end of the hall or the few students who took gym
with them in high school), had many questions. Their comfort level was
not very high. They wanted to ask basic questions such as "`How do you
say Hi?`" and they wanted to ask them without inhibition and without
worrying that they might hurt Lorraine's feelings. It is interesting, on
the other hand, that the students themselves questioned the ethics of
starting class without Lorraine.

Out of that first discussion on relations with Lorraine, a core of
students came forward who were willing to meet once a month with Lorraine
and someone from CICE to talk through problems, listen to her concerns
and get to know one another better. Those group meeting provided an
important outlet, especially for identifying potential difficulties
before they became problems. Gradually, those students began to take on
the responsibility of ensuring that Lorraine was getting the notes she
needed and keeping her hinders organized, and they made sure that she
ordered the class sweatshirt before the deadline. Sensitive to her
longing to feel connected, they began to extend invitations to lunch and
to an aerobics class which coincided with their spare period. And they
began to delight in her growing selfassuredness and accomplishments.
Nor was Lorraine the only one benefitting from these group meetings.
//They were becoming --> page 286





