//grasp them; and field trips or work placements are essential for those
//who need hands-on learning. <-- page 283
All these learning styles are effective for
people who learn at a slower pace.

*_Adapting the System to the Student_* +
Through CICE, there is considerable work done to modify and adapt the
course to each student. And students are provided with support to go to
class for as long as they want that support. Central to the role of the
CICE faculty members is collaboration with other students and instructors
so that major points of the course can be highlighted, assignments
identified, and field placements arranged. The discussion then focuses on
making this all happen for one particular student.
For example, because Lorraine has difficulty reading and writing, it is
necessary for someone to give her a copy of their class notes so they can
be read onto a tape for her to review at home. A group assignment is
adapted so Lorraine's group will be evaluated not only on their
presentation but on how they involve her in completing the work. Instead
of a book review, Lorraine will do a film review, spoken into a tape
recorder rather than written out. A field placement will be scaled to her
confidence level; but it will take place on the same day, in the same
setting, and under the same supervision as for everyone else.

*_Peer Education_* +
Despite thorough planning, challenges arise along the way. For example,
when the semester first began, a dilemma arose over how to elicit the
support of students in Lorraine's class. Should Lorraine simply start
class on the same day as everyone else, leaving them to follow their own
instincts about how to be involved with her? She would, after all, be
with a support person whose main role would be to introduce her to other
students, initiate conversation and generally model a way of interacting.
The alternative was to inform the students that Lorraine would be joining
them before she was introduced to the class.
//That meant going in on the first day, without --> page 285





