She is now recognized as Mandy: a cute little girl with strengths and a 
personality She has experienced real life situations; she is learning in
a setting that will prepare her for life in the community as a contributing
and participating adult. She is accepted regardless of her abilities or
disability by her peers, by those who will also someday be the adults in
her community.

Peoples' attitudes are changing; people are more knowledgeable, more
sensitive and more willing to accept children with differences into their
classrooms, lives and communities. This letter from the mother of one of
Mandy's clamates shows just how much attitudes are changing:

[quote, Candice Gertz, Oromocto New Brunswick]
____
As a relatively new resident of New Brunswick I was at first sceptical
about integration. I was concerned that my child, who had previously been
in French immersion, would not receive the extra attention that she may
or may not have needed. My concerns were totally unfounded. My daughter
has not been set back in any way by integration; but she has been greatly
enriched, as has our whole family.

My daughters best friend is handicapped. They are in the same class and
are close neighbours as well. Morgan does not think of Mandy as handicapped.
She doesn't treat Mandy any differently from any of her other friends,
and cannot understand why some people make a to-do about being Mandy's 
"special friend". To Morgan, Mandy is special just because she is Mandy,
a loving, generous, funny little girl, her greatest friend.

My personal views on integration have greatly changed. I have watched two
little girls blossom together and I feel that wouldn't have happened without
integration. My entire family has been enriched by getting to know a
"handicapped child"; in fact I sometimes wonder who is truly handicapped.
Mandy accepts us with all our limitations and narrow-mindedness and we
accept Mandy for what she is, a child who is funny, determined and, in
my view, extremely courageous. Integration can teach us all many valuable
lessons in accepting others' limitations without harming anyone's academic
endeavours.

One of the great est gifts we can give our children is freedom from prejudice
of any kind. By shielding our 'perfect' children we are not doing them any
favours; we are, in fact, doing them a grave injustice. Children are naturally
non-judgmental and I ﬁnd it unforgivable to foist the unfair labels and
prejudgments of some adults onto the shoulders of children.
____
