We sat with cups of coffee and shared stories, concerns, ideas and plans
for the future. The atmosphere of this first meeting was one of caring
and sharing; it was both exciting and rejuvenating.

After everyone left that evening, and as I sat alone in my living room,
I was filled with a new, warm, safe feeling. I wasn't alone at all. I knew
then that everything was going to be alright It was a wonderful feeling
to finally share and discuss how I felt -- my frustrations, worries,
thoughts and actions -- with other people who understood. It lifted the
weight off my shoulders.

The group was immediately active, following the burning issue of integration,
and keeping up-to-date on progress, espacially in the school system. We
prepared and mailed documents to the school district, informing them of
the formation of our parent group. In our letter, we spoke of our support
for their endeavours to integrate children with exceptional needs into the
regular school system.

A formal presentation to the school board was the next item on our agenda.
As the designated leader of the parent support group I was responsible for
the presentation: the first one I'd ever given! Despite my nervousness,
the response was tremendous; our report of our expectations drew the attention
of many school board members and the media. We continued to attend school
board meetings and were called upon to discuss and comment on other school
policies.

The years were both positive and rewarding, not only for our family but
for our community. The parent group continued, becoming a united voice,
a resource to other parents and to the community, and a source of strength
for one another. Because we stood together we saw many significant and
exiting changes in our schools and our community.

The most important outcome of our efforts was that Mandy was permanently
integrated into the regular school system in Oromocto, New Brunswick.
Integration meant that she became a part of one school system that exists
for _all_ children. It provided the opportunity for her to learn, to
participate and to play with her friends in and out of the school.

