By the mid 1980s, the Integration Action Group was providing
sophisticated support to individual families struggling to achieve 
integration. Since 1987, the Centre for Integrated Education
(now called the Centre for Integrated Education and Community)
has been another source of training, consultation, and resource
development for both parents and professionals.
Such initiatives are unique to Canada and have helped give
parents the courage and determination to seek integrated
educational fittings for their children.  
Parents have insisted with considerable success that the
traditional special education system change. The increasing
demand from parents has been evident in every province and
territory and the concerns that have created the demand have
been consistent. Parents`' demand for integrated education
stems from a vision for their children's future which they only
see realized in a regular class with non-disabled peers.  

[quote, Carson, 1987]
____
At a meeting for parents of special needs children, we
were asked, "`What is your dream for your child?`" I never
[thought] I had a dream for my son Daniel who has
special needs... After thinking about it, [however, I
realized] I do have a dream for Daniel — a very simple
dream. I dream of Daniel taking an apple to his teacher,
of packing his lunch for school, of seeing him in a school
play, and of him bringing home his report card. These are very
ordinary things for most parents, but to the family of a
[mentally handicapped] child, these are dreams that bring
unexplained joy.

And I have another very special dream for Daniel that
is coming true right now. While at play group Daniels friend Evan sits
with him ... I hope when my son is in high school, his friends will say,
Daniel doesn't need an attendant all day -- we'll help him with his lunch
-- we'll make sure he gets to classes -- we'll help him to get on and off
the bus. We'll take him to the school dances and basketball games, simply
because he is our friend and we care about him.
____
