// with differences did not belong in our community; they belonged somewhere else, some place ''special''. <-- page 93
That belief was first shaken in 1979 when, in a Canadian hospital in Lahr,
West Germany, a beautiful baby girl with big blue eyes and brown hair was
born in to our family. We called her Mandy.

Several days following Mandy's birth, my husband and I received shocking
news. The doctors suspected that Mandy had been born with an ertra chromosme
or, as it is better known, Down Syndrome. My head spun. How could it be?
With a pounding heart I hurried back to my room to cuddle my long-awaited
baby girl and stare at the face I already loved so dearly. As I held her
close, I tried to imagine what the future would hold for our family.
All I new was that I was her mother and she belonged with me. A nurse soon
advised me to put my baby down as I was becoming much too attached to her.
She said, "`It wouldn't do either of you any good`". Her words left me feeling
angry, confused, defensive and alone.

It was several weeks before I found the courage to phone my parents to inform
them of the birth of their first granddaughter. I was unprepared for their
total acceptance of Mandy. Their support and acceptance were invaluable
in helping me cope at that moment and in the years to come.

I feel fortunate that we had the foresight to reject the advice of the
doctors -- and the beliefs of our generation -- and refuse to institutionalize
our child. I will never regret the decision which set my family on a
challenging road filled with obstacles.

In the years to come Mandy herself would challenge us all. She would have
a powerful impact on our lives and on the direction we would take together
as a family. As the mother of a child labelled mentally handicapped, I
would have to continually give explanations, challenge conventional decsions
and advocate for her rights. Mandy forced me to look for answers, to make
choices and decisions. The very people I nespected and admired in life
became my adversaries.
// Mandy --> page 95
