Through problem solving with other professionals, parents and peers,
teachers work towards physical and recreational goals in ways that, at
the same time, encourage the student's inclusion in the mainstream.

One teacher explained how Aidan, a student in Grade 5 who was seriously
injured in a car accident, is encouraged by his peers to use his right
hand to raise his weak left hand when he wants to ask a question or make
a comment to the teacher or his classmates. It takes him a little longer,
his teacher observes, but it is a natural way of practising the stretching
motion needed to maintain muscle tone in his weak arm. Classmates nearby
remind Aidan to sit up straight throughout the class by gently taping his
back when he forgets and slouches in his seat. His classmates know that
Aidan's dream is to walk again and are thrilled to be able to help in any
way they can. One of his friends wrote:

[quote, McLaughlin, 1989]
____
When he said his biggest dreams are to be able to walk and drive a car,
I felt like jumping up and saying, "`I'm with you all the way Aidan`",
because I want to help him. Is there any way I can help Aidan?
____

lf Aidan had been sent to therapy outside of the classroom for this exercise,
he would have missed the opportunity for peer encouragement and interaction
that being in the classroom afforded him (Giangreco, Edelman and Dennis, 1990).
His non-handicapped peers would have missed an opportunity to witness first-hand
Aidan's determination and his struggle to regain his strength. Aidan
provided a good role model for his peers, and the teacher provided a
natural vehicle for peer relationship development -- the regular classroom.

Outside the classroom, teachers, parents and other students can find ways
to involve the student in as many school activities as desired. Through
intramural activities, clubs and informal school groups, students with
disabilities have opportunities to become an integral part of the
recreational and social life of the school.




