It should be accepted that not everyone who tries the position will find
the job suitable. Some teachers find it difficult to switch to a collaborative
consultant role. Others will find they miss the security of regular teaching
assignment and want to return to it. A reasnable agree of turnover should
be welcomed and can prove beneficial by bringing new people with new ideas
into the  Experience shows that those who leave the position return to the
classrom with improved skills and an anhanced perspective on meeting student's
individual needs.

Teachers and principals in districts 28 and 29 indicated that they needed
more training and experience to understand the M&R teacher role. This is
essential if M&R teachers are to p1ay their part in the process of inclusion.
For the program to work well teachers need to gain an understanding of the
value of school integration and their responsibility in carrying it out.
Direct experience with a student with a disability appears to be a critical
part of this process. Successful experiences must be shared and the idea 
that integration is a fad or a cycle needs to be put to rest.

M&R teachers identified a number of strategies they have found effective
in working with regular class teachers. It will be important to share that
information and develop additional approaches. Many principals also need
to be more involved in the program. Their participation, understanding and
support is critical. It's clear that when principals take an interest and
show leadership they can give the program the credibility it takes to be
successful.

It is important to consider the classmom practices that facilitate the
inclusion of students with disabilities. Instructional practices need to
change. The reliance on teacherdirected instruction and mastery of content
does not encourage participation by students with disabilities and it is
questionable how much it benefits other students. Progressive teaching methods
like multi-level instruction, cooperative learning, peer-tutoring, project
work and activity-based learning need to be promoted.
