//gaged in the same pursuit, sharing timetables and deadline pressures. <-- page 282
They are so proud of being part of the school that trips to the book
store to purchase binders, sweatshirts, and knapsacks bearing the Humber
logo are as frequent as finances will allow.

Being at a community college or university has multiple benefits to a
person's self-esteem. Colleges and universities are socially valued
environments because the pursuit of higher education is regarded so
positively in our society. The power of belonging to a valued place in
the comunity goes far beyond the support provided by a teacher or the
knowledge gained in a course. It creates a positive mood for learning and
the value of the environment is transmitted to students, who often convey
an entirely new sense of personal bearing.

Adult education, particularly, is by nature an accepting environment.
Society has a healthy respect for the experiences that have made up a
person's life by the time they reach adulthood. The experience of life
with a disability has a claim on that respect; and, while allowances are
being made in adult education programs for disabilities, the challenges
and expectations of the educational environment prepare students for life
off-campus.

Teachers of adult education often see their profession as a continuum
which incorporates all people who want to learn.
The best teachers will argue that they are less interested in teaching
content to students than in encouraging them to consider themselves as
agents in the process of learning. The teachers impart to students that
learning how to learn rather than devouring a body of text will better
prepare them for life in a rapidly changing society.

More and more, teachers are using a combination of teaching strategies
to accommodate students`' different learning styles. Lecture style works
best for those who like to take notes or record information for review
purposes; audio visual aids help theme who need to "`see`" the main
points; group discussions are useful for those who need to exchange ideas
to grasp them; and field trips or work placements are essential for those
who need hands-on learning.





