//use the library. <-- page 106
I would like to do projekts with the other students to learn about things.
I would want to learn about geography -- about countries and how to use
a map. I would like to learn spelling. I would like to learn other languages,
especially Italian. I would like to learn math. I did like gym but would
have liked to do team sports like basketball. I would like to have had recess
so I could meet friends. I would have liked to get to know other students
and to do things with them.

I wish I could have given my opinion about what I wanted to learn. I would
have liked to have choices. I would want respect and to feel important.
I would want to go to school with my brothers and sisters and to learn
interesting things.

==== INTO THE WORKFORCE
Two and a half years alter I graduated from Vincent Massey, I was hired
as an Educational Assistant at the Separate School Board. There were many
good things and there were some problems. The teachers would get upset with
me because I did the wrong thing. I didn't know that it was wrong. I could
not read the list of duties that the teachers gave me. I was embarrassed
to tell them that I couldn't read. When they found out that I couldn't read
they said I should not have my job. I did not feel good about myself.
I felt that I was different from the other staff. People didn't always want
to help me.

My sister and I talked about the situation. She asked me if I wanted to
learn. I said I definitely wanted to learn. My parents, my brothers and
my other sister weren't sure that it was necessary. Maybe it wasn't a god
idea, they thought.
They said if I needed reading skills for my job maybe I should quit my job.
I thought, "`No way!`" We looked for a course but everyone said they didn't
have a program for "`special needs`" students. Finally, the adult program
at the Separate School Board said OK. I went to the adult literacy program
sponsored by the Hamilton Catholic School Board Adult Education Program.
I started in I986 and continue to go for two half-days per week.

