==== INNOVATION
In many parts of North America, the expansion of special education has resulted in the creation of parallel systems for
regular and special education. Many jurisdictions with the most mature and comprehensive special education services have
evolved to the point where the regular and special education systems exists separately and relate toeach other only in
the most theoretical way.


Many who promote special education have developed a mentality of compartmentalizing: rather than restructure a system that
is inadequate, "gaps in service" are filled with new special education programs (Porter, 1990).  

The goal, indeed the mission, of an effective school is to assure success in learning for all students. The development of a
parallel special education systam has been harmful, not only because it has excluded exceptional students and prevented their
contact with non-disabled peers, but also because of the effect it has bad on the regular education
program (Gartner and Lipsky, 1987; Reynolds, Wang and Walburg, 1987; Stainback and Stainback, 1984; Will, 1986).
A School that passes over all the students with learning problems to a separate special education system undermines its
capacity to be a holistic unit that serves all students well. The Director of education of a Roman Catholic school board
in western Canada describes his rationale for dismantling such a separate structure:  

[quote, Porter 1990)]
____
In 1982 ... I took the Student Services Department out of the organizational chart and said were will be one department,
and it will be Instructional Services. Until than there were two heads of two departments. I said if Student Services is part
of Instuction then it has to be part of that department, right at the board level too. We didn’t wipe out the staff, but we 
[incorporated] Student Services [into] Instructional Services...
People [often] want to keep the functions separate. My contention is that organizationally we've got to have
them together. If there's a sense of education being integral and being for everybody, then those services have to be in the
one department.
____

