We asked the students if they thought Sue now belonged
to their class. Unanimously, they indicated that she did not, but that
she was someone who spent a lot of time in the resource room. When asked
how they thought they could start including Sue, one boy said, "`Saying
hello in the morning.`"

We asked,"`What sort of things do you think Sue
likes to do outside in the playground?`" The children said, "`Climbing,
piggybacking, swinging, slidingng, playing with Puppets, having other
people besides her aide or teacher with her.`"

We asked what things the students could do in the classroom with Sue.
They said, "`Learning her numbers and letters, cutting things out, crafts,
picture cards, puzzles.`" We questioned them on activities Sue could do
with them and they replied, "`Read, help her with her work, read to her,
draw with her, have one of us with her each day, write on the blackboard.`"

When invited to help Sue with these activities, all but two of the
children volunteered to help. We stressed during the meeting that they
were not to feel pressured into helping but that if they wanted to make
the commitment, they should consider it to last the whole school year.
We picked six students arbitrarily to help support Sue at school. Within
a few days of the meeting, it was apparent that these students had
commitments which sometimes took them away from Sue. If students were
going to help her, it would require all the children in the class.

We worried about initiating this process because, while we were committed
to the group, we were responsible for maintaining safety and order in the
school. Sue was known to strike out at those around her. With the other
children in Sue's class, we discussed their ability to identify Sue's
signs of anger. The students spoke of ways to deflate a potential incident
and to minimize the chances of getting hurt, and of what to do if they
felt things were getting out of hand.

Most of the students admitted that they found it upsetting when Sue got
out of control. Twenty-one of the twenty-five students indicated that they
were concerned about her anger but didn't want to change their commitment
to Sue.




