//stand when the lesson has been completed. <-- page 194
Different content may be necessary for students with different levels of
skill. However at the end of the lesson all students should have a similar
understanding of the concept, taking into consideration the level at which
they are working.

This will involve close scrutiny of the materials to be taught. Many school
programs now in use especially at the junior and senior-level, rely heavily
on the teaching of content.
The difficulty with teaching excessive content is that many students who
could successfully grasp the overall concept cannot master all the content.
There is a need to clarify the difference between the underlying concepts
and the content which is used to develop these concepts.

Imagine a traditional lesson on conflict within a story taught at the
junior or senior high school level. Students are generally expected to
recognize specific types of liteary conflict. This is evaluated by having
them read a particular story or novel with the aim of identifying examples
of conflict. It is easy to imagine the difficulty experienced by students
working at a reading level below that of the reading material. The difficulty
is not in understanding the concept of conflict but in reading the material
in order to complete the assignment. By placing emphasis on the ability
to read and write without allowing other means for demonstrating learning
or illustrating knowledge of conflict, students are "`handicapped`" by the
structure.

Instead of expecting all students to know the types of literary conflict
and read all the material, the teacher can approach this concept in a
broader sense. If the teacher were to concentrate on acquainting all
students with an understanding of conflict and have them identify the types
through examples in real life, the types could later he related to a
particular novel or short story. This would allow all students to be
involved in the concept while variations are made in the assignments to
accommodate different levels of skill.
