[%hardbreaks]
==== TIME-USE BY METHODS AND RESOURCE TEACHERS
On several occasions we have had M&R teachers track their use of time to
provide an objective look at their activities. This makes it possible to
monitor the degree to which day-to-day practice corresponds to the theoretical
model for their role. The most recent survey was completed in January 1990
during the fourth full year of an integrated school setting.

Twenty-five methods and resource teachers completed a time-use log for two
consecutive teaching days. They recorded the maior activities they were
engaged in during fifteen-minute time segments throughout the work day.
Four major categories of activity emerged: 1) collaborative consultation;
2) teacher support; 3) instruction; and 4) other (see chart A1).

The category that took up the major portion of time -- 32.5 per cent -- was
collaborative consultation. This involves collaborating with teachers, teacher's
aides, other M&R teachers, parents, the principal and consulting professionals
such as psychologists. Time spent monitoring in-class activities was also
considered a collaborative function.

The second major area is teacher support activities. This category included
areas like referral and assessment, planning, IEP development and the preparation
of materials for instruction. These activities took 24.7 per cent of the M&R
teachers time.

A third category, instruction-related tasks, totalled 27.9 per cent of the time.
This area was made up of three distinct activities: 1) occasions when the
M&R teacher provided direct instruction to the whole class so the regular
teacher could work with the individual student or do program development
for a student; 2) individual or small group instruction in the regular classroom
in partnership with the regular teacher; and 3) pull-out instruction in
the resource room.

The fourth and final category of activity included all the other activities
teachers engage in such as professional development, meeting with students
or student groups, school duty, and a variety of other activities. This
area accounted for 14.9 per cent of the M&R teachers time.
