For several months they walked behind him, prompting him when necessary
to stay on the sidewalk or to stop at the sign or keep walking. Progress
was slow but they continually came closer to their goal. Another child was
learning to use his wheel chair, and yet another to manoeuvre her way to
various parts of the school although she is totally blind.

Other students are dedicated helpers in this fight for independence. Young
children do not see disabilities in the same light that adults do. We
tend to be overwhelmed by the disability and the obstacles it creats.
Children just see the moment and they do whatever has to be done to ﬁx
things for that moment. Watch them interacting: directing, encouraging,
helping or just plain nagging, "`will you hurry up!"` Another interesting
reason for including other children in efforts to reach goals is that
children will do things for other children that they will do less willingly
for an adult.

*_Teacher as Supporter_* +
Each child with special needs who I have worked with has inadvertently
defined a special role for me: the role of supporter. As classroom
teachers, we need to be the supporter of our children, to be there for
them, to listen to their concerns and to understand them. No one needs
this more than children with disabilities. Their teachers must be
available to explain to other educators their strengths, learning styles,
and goals, to tell who their friends are and to suggest strategies.

The teacher does not need to be an expert or have all the answers for the
child. But it should be clear that the teacher supports this child and
will do whatever he or she can do to help; it should also be clear that
the teacher appreciates the support of others. Interestingly enough, when
we actually ask for help, we often get it.

Teachers who have integrated classrooms design lessons which include all
students according to their learning styles. They include activities
which will build on the strengths of their students.
They strive to give their students the tools for

