In Chapter 1, we have identified three factors connected to achieving
school integration:
  
* law -- a legal and legislative base

* Advocacy -- a vision clearly articulated and effectively
advanced

* Innovation -- creativ educational practice that captures the vision
and turns it into reality in classrooms and schools.

Each chapter in _Changing Canadian Schools_ adresses one or more of these
factors. Taken together they offer a broad perspective on the issue in
question. The book's three sections -- Philosophical, Legal and Historical
Overview; Parent and Self-Advocacy; and Innovations and Practical
Applications -- parallel the evolution of an inclusionary approach to
schooling.

*The first section* describes the ideals and attitudes that led to a
desire for inclusive education. Various contributors explain the social
theory and legal action that arose as people began to work towards their
ideals.

The philosophical underpinnings of education integration are part of the
overall vision of rights for people who have a mental handicap.  
Chapter 2 explains the vision as articulated by the Canadian Association
for Community Living. It explains that education which includes all
students is a critical foundation for building communities in which all
individuals can participate, regardless of disability.
Peter Park, a founding member of People First of Canada, an advocacy
organization of individuals who have been labelled mentally handicapped,
sums up the situation:  

[quote]
____
I have to thank my father and mother for not putting me in a segregated
school back in the `'50s when they were just starting. They said. "`No,
you have to go to a regular school`", and I have benefitted from it. I
had regular friends, got into regular trouble, and all the things a person
does when they are growing up.
When you are in a segregated setting nobody else wants to talk to you,
nobody wants to have anything to do with you except the people that you
have daily contact with. So you don't make friends there. You don't know
how to conduct yourself appropriately.
____
