262
began to emerge where Sue's behaviour required support,
than the support aﬁenated Sue further from her peers, which
waisted the intensity of her outbursts, which required
tighter measures, which t‘urthm' alienated her, and so on. It
Mcame evident that while Sue attended her neighbourhood
school with her regular peers, shewas alone;herlife paralleled
the lives of her peers but rarely intersected with them.
Factors in the School Structure
The school environment was also a factor in her lack of
friendship. The school was perceived as a place where Sue
was to learn new skills and demonstrate appropriate behav-
iour while in a learning environment. Thme are important
objectivm for all students. However, for Sue, these skills and
behaviours were being taught without the beneﬁt of friend-
ships to provide the impetus, motivation or relevancy needed
to make them seem important or desirable to her. When
children work or play with one another, they imitate each
other's behaviour and identify with friends possessing ad-
mired competencies or skills. As a result, they provide each
other with powerful models of appropriate and inappropriate
behaviour.
Our schools seem to play down the importance of peer
relationships, which are mainly relegated to extracurricular
activities. In most classrooms, students work alone, doing
seatwork or listening to the teacher's instruction. Students’
attempts to interact in groups are considered disruptive to the
learning environment. Similarly, there is no instruction in the
sodal skills necessary for interacting effectively with peers.
These skills have not been considered pedagogically useful for
learning.
Much of this can be attributed to the way our schools have
been set up. Until quite recently schools have been institutions
where skills were learned in a rigid, assembly-line fashion.
The teachers role was to impart knowledge to the students.
Similarly, there were clearly deﬁned roles for other school
Cmmcnvc Cmsomu Scnoots H H _ n ,  y
26.3

