15
at the time of the withdrawal (Department of Educaﬁon,
Province of New Brunswick, 19%).
While the law and policy just dwhed for New Brunswick
is clearly the most supportive of integration in Canada, it has
not eliminated legal disputes over placement decisions. At the
same time that teachers in New Brunswick were expwing
grave mncern about the effmts of intewaﬁon, one family was
ﬁghting the same battle for their daughters access to aregular
class that the Elwoods had fought two years before in Nova
Scotia. In this case, a legal challenge was mam to seek
compliance with a law the parents believed was consistent
with the Charter.
Joe and Anne Robichaud had been unhappy for some time
with their daughter Natha1ie’s placement in a special class. As
they saw intepation initiated in more and more schools in
New Brunswick, they were increasingly anxious that things
should change for heras well. In the fall ot'1987, they arranged
for her to attend a regular class but, when things did not go
well, they concluded that school ofﬁdals were not willing to do
what was nemsary to improve the situation, and they with-
drew her from school. Nathalie spent very little time in school
during the 1987-88 school year but the Robiohauds declined
repeated sugestions from school administrators that she
return to a segregated class. As the 1988 fall term moved on
with Nathalie still out of school, the Robichauds reluctantly
pursued a legal remedy to their situation.
Developments in the Robichaud case followed closely the
pattern of the Elwood case. In December 1988, Joe and Anne
Robichaud ﬁled suit against the school board. An injunction
was obtained in January 1989 ordering that Nathalie be
immediately placed in a regular class until the case could go
to full trial. As a nesult, Nathalie Robicbaud, like Luke Elwood,
attended a regular class while the legal manoeuvring went on
in the background. In June 1989, several weeks after the
Spedal Committee of In-.=@'slato1's received its mandate to
review progress toward integration, the Robichauds were
_ - _ .___n.._ 1. i Cmuonvc Camomu Scnoocs
24

