27$
abletomtahlishaval\.u'qrclationshipwithSue anddm also
ﬁequmqdherawwfw outbursts. lnadﬁtion, tmamountof
time spentinpositiveintm-mﬁminueasedaﬁerthewnrkshop.
Smeconoerns and questionsarcseduringthe workshop.
A few people were concerned thatwe were pumhing Sue beyond
the limits of her endurance. Initially the valuing was too
animated and therefore seemd  The energ required
to bring about participation was too greats In addiﬁon, the
poup askﬁ: how meaningful were the activities? Had we
eliminatd her aggression to the degree hoped for? How would
we do Gentle Teaching in the classrom?
The Transition m the Claslmom
Wehadworkﬁwithsueinasettingseparateﬁnmthe
classroom, using normal voim and plenty of activity and
enthusiasm. Some parﬁcipants thought that using Gentle
Teaching in the classroom would be disruptive and intrusive.
However, others argued that past behaviour-management
programs, such as taking Sue to time-out, had been disruptive.
Despite the doubts, most participants felt that worﬁng pre-
ventively to establish relationships would, over the long term,
lesm the likelihood of disruptions, as oppmed to simply
reacting and trying to wntrol her outbmets.
Some attention was paid to the setup of the classroom. If
classrooms were going to be controlled environments where
students sat in rows facing the teacher and were quiet mmt of
the timf. , than any intervention was going to be a distraction
to the class. Ifclassrooms were places where students inter-
acted with each other, then disruption would be less obvious.
Activities during the workshop were geared to Sue's in-
terests and ahilitim. After the workshop these or similar
activities were adapted and used in the daily routine in elm.
The materials and methods in the training sessions were only
a starting point for participation; novel and more complex
materials needed to be introduced as soon as meaninghl
interactions were established. Contrived activities had to be
.5- a - _ - __ __ _ Cnmvcnvc Cmsnmu Scuoots
I "1 1-»-
Z 1 .)

