W
HISTORY
Prop-ems for teachers of students with special nwds have
come under a variety of labels: pre-referral intervention;
teacher support teams; and teacher assistant teams (Canelh
and 1%, 1990; Wat, 1990; Chalfant, Pysh and Moultrie.
1979). Our present use of problem-solving tam in New
Brunswick school districts 28 and 29 originated with the
teachu assistant team (TAT) ccnmpt developed by James
Chalfant and his associata in the United Statm. This model
was created to address the increming rﬁerral of students to
spedal education mrvims and to stop the ﬂow of referrals for
formal assmrnmt. The goal was to handle more situaﬁons at
the schod level, reduce the number of inappropriate refs.-rrals,
and use spmal edumtzion pmsonnel more eﬂectively.
In 1979 we hrought Chalfant and Pysh to our district to
train teachers and administrators from each school in the use
of their model. Subsequently, schools set up tems by either
recruiting volunteers, holding elecﬁons or having the princi-
pal choose team members. Despite the fact that rmults were
mixed and the mml eventually fell inm disuse with teams
dishandingin most schools, we had many pmitive experiences
with the TAT model. Those experiences became a useful
resource as teachers worked hard to meet the challenge of
integrating students. We looked anew at the elements of the
TAT model that were most compelling for our circumstances
and our present day problem-solving teams bemme an out-
gowthofourexpen'enoewiththeteacherasm'stantteam model.
Our revised model is a mix of old and new ideas. The
purpose of referral is now to give teachers needed support to
keep all students in regular classes. The facilitator is most
often a school-based methods and resource teacher or a gui-
dance counsellor. The make-up of the teams is ﬂexible and
open to whatever considerations seem relevant. The process
followed during the thirty-minute meeting, however, is simi-
lar to the TAT model.
Cwmcmc Cmsomn Scnoors _ tttttt “ _ - _
$0
L.»
P-it
— 

