288
rnioutm chatting alter each class. One afternoon, the student
told him about the self-advocacy group, People First, which
was motesting the following wwkend mat a controversial
wage policy. Proposed by the previous provincial government,
the policy would allow employers to pay people who had been
labelled 1% than minimum wge. Iﬁs student was certainly
going to attend the rally, being an active member of the
organization. The teacher was interested and engaged; when
it came to the lesson on writing business letters, he suggested
she write hers, with his help, to the provincial government
about that very issue. She embraced the assignment whole-
heiy. Her ﬁnished product met the requisite speciﬁes-
tions: she stated her case, and, having had access to the
computer lab, presented a polished letter.
Whm a s%d student in an Eﬂiective Speaking course
decided at the last minute m sing Christmas mrols instead of
playingthetapedaddrmswhichmandhispeertutorhad so
diligently mowed for his presentation, only his mtor squinnwl
All the other students applauded his eﬂhrts, and his instructor
awarded him a resounding 9-ado of seventy-one per mot with a
written wngmtulation forknoﬁng better than anyoneelse in the
class “how to really get into the act of prwenting'.
Support Staff
The support staﬂ' at Humber proved to be unsung heros,
providing help on a regular basis. This was the case when one
student, intending to take twenty dollars out of s bank
machine, accidentally got the decimal point in the wrong place
and ended up with signiﬁcantly more money. She immediately
received a lesson on making a depwit. The people at the library
desk became well-acquainted with one student who, while
searching for her library mrd in her wallet, would always
fumble, dropping all the photographs of her family, her cat,
and even one of herself “when she had short hair”. Reassem-
bling her paraphernalia always took a few minutes, enough
time to chat and to offer to show the photos around, again.
Cumcmc Camnmu Scuoons _ -
25?

