93
dfthe class. The teacher said that she became concerned when
itwssJustin’s tur-n;there he stood atthefront ofthe class with
no written material prepared. He mdw to tell the class
that he had chosen to talk about his sister, her life and what
his family's dram were for her. He spoke about the label
society had given her, about her struggles, her mcomplish-
ments and about how she wasj ust like the other students. She
libd b skate, watch vidm, go to schd, and play with her
ﬁiends, and her favourite singer was Michael Jackson. Justin
conoludﬁ by telling the class that he did not need to write
down on paper or prepare beforehand what he knew was right
because it came naturally from his heart. l was told that this
presentation not only moved the entire clmm to tears.
including the teacher, but that it was also the most educa-
tional presentation the teacher had ever heard.
June came and the mhool year was winding down when the
news came: our family was being transferred to Oromocto,
New Brunswick. It sounded like the other end of the earth.
What was to become of Mandy and her educaﬁon?
‘With just two days left in the school year and only days
before we leﬁ for our new home, the school principal called and
asked my husband and I to meet with him the next day. Not
knowing what it was all about, and feeling both apprehensive
and curious, we went to the school.
Upon our arrival, we were escorted into a crowded board
room ﬁlled with people -- teachers and administrators who
had been directly involved with Mandy, and other teachers
whose only experience had been to say hi to her in the halls.
To our surprise, they all thanked my husband and I for giving
them the opportunity to have Mandy at their school. They told
us how sorry they were to we us leave and that they wished
we were staying in Ottawa for at least three more years. They
added that they hoped Mandy had learned as much from them
as they had learned from her.
It was a moment I will never forget. It sealed my beliefs;
I made an added commitment to our family's direction. I later
uh; “ on  : Cumcmc Cmwrnosu S0-roots
97

