92
have been the emier route --- or if I should persevere, doing
what I felt was right for Mandy and helping others to see
Mandyasldid. Shouldlcnollengethissystem that wantedto
keep her out of their lives?
‘I'hc decision was made. We felt that education was for
everme and that Mandy should and could belong. We dedded
to approach the school down the strut from our home, the
some school her older brother, J ustin, was attending.
My husband and I met with the prindpal and discussed my
thouﬂts and beliefs, and my desire tosmnl Mandy inthe next
school year in theirjunior kindergarten prqram. He said they
did not have any children with handicap at this school;
however, did I mow of the spa'al school acmss town for the
mentally retarded? I assured him that I was aware of it but
was not interested in visiting the special school, nor was I
considering it an option for my daughters education. The
principal was genuinely supprﬁve and optimistic as he tried
to understand my concept. He told me that he would consider
my request and would bring it up at the next meeting with his
superiors.
As we waited with anticipation, the summer months ﬂew
by and fall was upon us. The ﬁrst day of school approached and
still we wai ted for an answer. Finally, the Friday before school
was tobegin, the phone call came. That phone call changed our
liven. Mandy was to start school on Monday with her brother.
We were ecstatic!
The following year was exciting, with none of the antid-
pated obstacles or problems. It really was an ordinary school
year. Mandy was just another kid at school.
Her presence at school that year had a major impact on
people's lives, including her brother's. One day, dming Educa-
tion Week, I received a phone call ﬁom Just:ln’s Grade 4
teacher. She wanted to share with me an emotional experience
she had witnessed that day at school.
Each of her pupils had been required to choose a topic
related to education, write about it and present it to the rest
Cnauonvo Cm.-mun Scuoots _, .__ , _
" Q
,!l;

