I02
myself. I felt I was diﬂhrent from my brothers and sisters and
friends and musins.
Vincent Massey was a senior school program for students
who were sixtmn ymrs old to twenty-one years old. Every
student was handicappﬂ. When I went to Vincent Mamy, I
waniedtolearn things thatwouldhelpme get ajob andbepmt
of the community. I wanted to learn to md, write, do math,
take care of children. I felt let! out, frustrated and bored
because I wasn’t learnhg things.
Whenlwenttoschooltheydiddtteachmetonead. They
taughtme yoga and crafts. I was upset with the worktraining
thatlhadtodo. I hadtogotoaparkinwintertopaintpicnic
tables. I had to pom potatoes. Finally, I told my sister that I
didn’t want to do that anymore. It was cold at the park. The
work was dirty. I had to come home dirty. I didn't like it. My
sister talked to my parents and they wld the teacher that I
wasn't to do these things. My principal was mad at my sister.
My brothers and sisters didn't have to do than thinp at their
school. I didn’t feel I was being respected.
I was bored at that school. I felt bad sometimes. I didn't
really have any friends. I liked some of the Eds I went to school
with but I only saw them at school. I didn't do things with them
on the weekend We lived far from each other and we needed
support to get together. My friends were my brothers and
sisters and their ﬁiends and my relativm.
About ten years ago, a ﬁiend of my family, Paul. said he
would help me to read. He taught me to read words from the
sports page of the newspaper. It was fun. When Paul was
teaching me, I felt good about myself. I realized I could learn
to read. Imade a decision to do something about it. My teachem
didn't support me. They told my sister that she was not being
fair to me. They said I couldn't rend. They were wrong.
III could change the school I went to I would change the
subjects. I wouldn't want craﬁs. I would want reading and
writing. I had cooking classes but only watched the teacher. I
would want to participate more. I would want to learn how to
Cmwcmo Cmmmu Scnoots t, ._ _ ., t
1 1. 6

