284
gaged in the same pursuit, sharing timetables and deadline
pressures. Theyaresoproudofbeingpartoftheschool that
trim to the book store to purcbm binders, sweatshirts, and
lrnamcks bearing the Humber logo are as frequent as ﬁ-
nances will allow.
Being at a community college or rmiversity has multiple
beneﬁts to a pm-m’s self-estmm. Colleges and univermties
no sodally valued environments bmuse the pursuit of higher
edumtion is regarded so positively in our sodety. The power of
belonﬂngto avaluedplacein the mmunity goa farbeyrmd
the support providd by a teacher or the knowledge gained in
a course. It creates a pmitive mood for learning and the value
of the environment is transmitted to students, who often
convey an entirely new sense M’ personal hearing.
Adult edumtion, particularly, is by nature an accepting
environment. Society has a healthy respect for the expariencm
that have made up a person's life by the time they reach
adulthood. The experience of life with a disability has a claim
on that respect; and, while allowanms are being made in adult
education programs for disabilities, the challengm and enme-
tations of the educational environment prepare students for
life oﬂ'-campus.
Teachers of adult education often see their profession as a
continuum which incorporates all people who want to learn.
The best teachers will argue that they are less interested in
teaching content to students than in encouraging them to
consider themselves as agents in the process of learning. The
teachers impart to students that learning how to learn rather
than devouring a body of text will better prepare them for life
in a rapidly changing society.
More and more, teachers are using a combination of
teaching strategies to accommodate students’ diﬁhrent learn-
ing styles. Lecture style works best for those who like to take
notes or record information for review purpmes; audio visual
aids help thme who need to “see” the main points; group
discussions are useful for those who need to exchange ideas to
Cmuonvc Cﬁmaowv Scnoors _ _
I) '
4 T: J

