I27
M&R tea&ers emphasized the need to know the parents
well and to develop a pmtive worﬁng relationship. Home
visits are oonm'dered important, particularly for parents who
do not come to scheduled appointments at school. It is impor-
tant to let the parents know exactly what is happening with
theirchildinschoohtosharethesucoesmandalsodiscussthe
diﬁculties that are being experienwd.
Parents typically Mve contectwiththesameM&R teacher
over a number of years, which may prevent parents ﬁom
seeing that the clas-mm teacher is responsible for the stu-
dent's program. Most of the M&R teachers feel that the swdal
relationship they have with the parent is positive but are
ooncemed that the regular teacher and the parent develop a
good relationship based on conﬁdence and trust. Among the
strategies they use is to have the regular teacher make the
phone mll to arrange a meeting and to have the teacher chair
the planning meetings. This shows that the teacher is in
charge of the child's education.
The relationship between high school teachers and par-
ents seems weaker than at other levels. High school teachers
usually instruct ﬁve or six clasm a day and their relationships
with individual students is superﬁcial compared to elemen-
tary and junior high teachers. As a result, the seam of
responsibility for the child’s total prom-am is not as developed.
Maﬁng the relationship even more difficult is the fact that
many high school teachers only contact parents when there is
something wrong, such as when the child isn’t attending school
regularly or has had a serious behavioural inddent. As a
result, the relationship is based on negative events and can be
adversarial.
At the high school level, the M&R teacher assumes more
responsibility for the programs of students with more severe
disabilities. This creates a problem of transfer of identity:
I ‘m still the one that parents call. The regular teachers
haven’! made any e/fort toget in touch with the parent
o l  Cmmcmo Csmnwv Scnoors
131)

