l8$
months thy walkd heh'md him, prompting him when neces-
sarytostayonthesidewalkm'tostopatthesipm'keep
walﬁng. Pno@s was slow but they continually came 421%
totheir@l.Anotherchildwasloar-ningtoueehiswheelchair,
andyetanothertommuvreherwaytovarious mus ofthe
school although she is totally blind.
Other students are Mdicated helpers in this ﬁght for
independence. Yotmg children do not see disabilities in the
same light that adults do. We tend to be onmhelmed by the
disability and the obstacles it creatm. Children just see the
moment and they h whatever has to be done to ﬁx things for
that moment. Watch them interacting: dirmthg, encourag-
ing, helpingorjust plain ringing, ‘will you hurry upl"Another
interesting reason for including other children in eﬁorm to
reach goals is that children will do things for other children
that they will do less willingly for an adult.
Teacher as Supporter
Each child with special needs who I have worked with has
inadvertently deﬁned a special role for me: the role of sup-
porter. As classroom teachers, we need to be the supmrter of
ourchildren, tobe there for them, to listen totheir oonmrns
and to understand them. No one needs this more than children
with disabiliﬁes. Their teachers must be available to explain
to other educators their strengths, learning styles, and goals,
to tell who their ﬁiends are and to sugest stratepcs.
The teacher does not need to be an expert or have all the
answers for the child. But it should be clear that the teacher
supports this child and will do whatever he or she can do to
help; it should also be clear that the teacher appreciatm the
support of others. Interestingly enough, when we actually ask
for help, we often get it.
Teachers who have integrated classmoms design lessons
which include all students according to their learning styles.
They include activities which will build on the strengths of
their students. They strive to give their students the tools for
_ U __ _   - _- - a Cmucmc Cmaoow SCHOOLS
é 1.->2

