2'72
Developing Techniques in o Workshop
Our workshop format was modelled after the one in Nova
Scotia. A room was designated as the workshop room and for
ﬁve days Sue, her mother, the teacher, the principal, the
teacher's assistants, the collaborating teacher, next year's
collabm-sting teacher and two school district ofﬁce consultants
assembled and practised together. We began each day by
disctrﬂrangthetheolyandsta-ateﬁmthataleaniritem-alpartof
Gentle'Ihaching.ThenweplennMouragmda fort.heday,with
objectives: howtoteachsue thatshe waswe with us;thatbeing
with us was rewarding and that interacting with us was more
enjoyable than driving us away thmu@ phyﬁcal ageasion.
At ﬁrst, the task seemed overwhelming. We needed to
convince the teachers that we had something valuable to offer
them in terms of changing Sue's situation at school. For the
participmts, it was difficult to imagine how people could work
together when they had diﬂerent responsibilities and diﬂerent
expectations of what Sue could do. in addition, they were
asked to change the way in which they dealt with Sue. This
group was not there strictly by choice; they were required to
take part. They were being videotaped and assessed by their
pee:s, a process unfamiliar and intimidating to most of them.
The workshop would take a week and some people felt this was
excessive and unfair to other students who also required
attention. How could wejustify spendingso much time, energy
and money on one student?
From the videotape of the ﬁrst morning's session, during
which time we asked people to interact with Sue as they would
normally, we were able to discern some of the typical patterns
of interaction. Foremost, those who worked with Sue focused
on the successful completion of academic tasks. Verbal ex-
changes with her included enmuragement and giving dime-
tions and praise for correct responses. Eye contact was mini-
mal and very much task-oriented. Sue, on the other hand,
almost always led the activity, doing what she wanted with a
given task or material, or refusing to do a task by turning ﬁ-om
Camcmc Csmomn Scuoots g g _ _ n ,
2 7 ’

