I?
ADVOCACY
Although many of the segregated schools that efisted emoss
Canma in the early 1980s had been started by loml chapters
of the Canafian Association for Community Living (the na-
fiooal ad? usociation for persons with mental handi-
caps) segregated schools and segregated classes no longer
aafisfy the aspirations of many families. Parent advocacy for
integrated mam has incmd substantially in the years
following adoption of the Charter, particularly by parents of
children labelled mentally handicapped. CACL has advocated
and promoted the right of every student to attend a regular
class in a neighbourhood school. This policy has been formally
supported by all ol'CACL's provincial and territorial afiliates
(CACL, 1987).
While intepation was not a matter of priority to most local
or provincial associations in the early 19808, at the national
level, The Roeher Institute, sponsored by CACL, began to
support parents as they stnwled to articulate their mncerns
about their children's education. At the community, provincial
and nafional levels, parents found sofidarity and strength by
banding together. As parent demand mew, The Institute and
CACL identified and promoted positive examples of integra-
fion and fadfitated uoining for educators to wmk in inte-
grated settinp. These courses led to the establishment of
university afiliated pmms that are currently providing
teachers and school administrators with the attitudes and
sfills they need to meet increasing parent demand for integra-
tion. Since the early 1980s, The Institute and CACL have
actively promoted inteyation through conferences and semi-
nars, publications, vidw productions, and financial and con-
sulting support for selected litigation.
CACL actively suppor-- td the development of an autono-
mous parent organization, the Integration Action Group,
which now has a substantial membrship in southern Ontario
and a number of chapters in other provinces. By the mid-
_ __ . _?f—-4 Cl-IANGINQCANADIANSCHOOLS
Lfii

