248
school day. They have learned that there is very little pos-
sibility fcr the formation ofrelaﬁonshim if students are not in
close moximitytooneanotherforagnahlelengthoftime.
Students who merely visit chasm for short periods of
time have less chance of forming relationships than do those
who spend the best part of the day with other students.
Teachers have argued that students who are removed from the
regular class for remediation frequentlymiss outon important
moments of the day. They question whether what is learned
outmde the chem is as valuable as what is missed. This
has led classroom teachers to collaborate with resource room
teachers on devising ways to incorporate individual instruc-
tion within the regular class structure.
Rubbing Elheos
Teachersarealsoﬁnding that seating arrangements inﬂuence
the opportunities for students to interact with one another.
Seating a student at the side or hack of the loom, as often
happens in order to accommodate the teacher's assistant, does
not create the same proximity as seating the student with a
handicap in the midst of his peers. Having a student with a
disability in a position to rub elbows with the other students
makes it more diiﬁcult for the teacher and peers to inadver-
tently “overlook” him or her. A close seating arrangement also
provides natural opportunities for neighbouring students to
interact during the day.
In the case of Patrick, a Grade 3 student who was unable
to talk, the teacher moved his desk from the side of the room
where he sat with the teacher asnstant. to the middle of the
second row. She observed that students near him began to
duplicate his communication gestures in order to initiate an
interaction with him. When he began to respond to their
initiations with smiles, squeals and gestures, the students
were so excited that their initiations escalated. They then
began to invite him to be partner in line as they got ready for
class movement. recess and music. They also began to run and
Cmuonvo Cnmowv Scnoocs g “ _ __-_
21 1»

