166
mmbers have helped to solve particular diﬁcultia that arise
intheclassrom envirmment.Atothertimestheteammem-
hers have helped teachers prepare for intepating excepﬁonal
students or have assisted in ilishhtg a student's indi-
vidual edumtional plan. Some adminishators smed that
during the formative years, the principal should act as chair-
person of the teacher assistant team (TAT). Once the TAT is
running smoothly, the principal should remain on the team
but not nmarily as chdrperson. Many school administra-
tors indicated that they had included as team members
teachers who had not been accepting of the 'mtegraﬁon proc-
ess. They oﬂen found that participation in the team prom
helped change these teachers’ attitudes and behaviour.
Another factor emphasized by school administrators who
had established TATs in their schools was scheduling of team
meetings. It was felt that, whenever pmsible, team meetings
should be scheduled during the school day rather than before
or alter school. Them was also agrmment that reasonable
time limits be established and adhered to for these meetings.
As one administrator stated, “People appreciate knowing that
the TAT session will end on time, and usually are not opposed
to staying alter school if they have participated in making the
decision about the meeting time.”
Increase Parent Involvement
Many educators identiﬁed the parents of exceptional students
as primary sources of support in the integation process. All
people agreed that effective parent-teacher communicaﬁon
was an important component in mahng integration work.
In order to have a strong working relationship with par-
ents, principals should establish procedures to allow parents
to be involved in their chil d’s educaﬁonal plan. Parents should
be involved in decision making and they should participate in
the planning team. Parents should also be invited to visit and
observe the class, espedally when there is a diﬁerence be~
tween bow the student is performing at school and at home.
Cwmcmc CANADIAN Scuoots , g _ w _
16:1

