83
Socimization and Learning
Yet another myth fostered by special education theory is that
children with a mental handicap will be aocialimdbetter in the
regular cl , but that their academic work will suﬂ‘er..
We were once told that this was the tradﬁ and that we
would have to make a choice betwm socialization and
education for our son. People who say things like that seem to
believe that chilmen with a mental handicap have little
understanding and no feeling. They are wrong. Parents will
understand what we mean when we say our son is slow, not
stupid. He and his friends understood quite well that they were
in segregated classes bwause they had been rejected by the
regular school system because they were considered inferior.
When our son had a chance to go into a regular class he
reacted well bemuse he clearly felt he now belonged. He
worked harder and progressed more quickly than he had in the
segregated classes. Better socializaﬁon had a pmitive, not a
negaﬁve, effect on his academic progress. A pupil who is
surrounded by other pupils behaving normally is likely to
behave normally and to work as others work. A pupil in a
segregated class is likely to be distracted by behaviours
around him or her and imitate them, rather than working.
Mmt segregated classes provide lem individual attention
than regular classes, making them inferior learning
environments. This was true of" .19 segregated classes our son
attended, despite the efforts of excellent teachers in those
segregated classes. Some of those teachers who went on to
teach in regular classes told us that, in a segregated class, each
exceptional pupil gets only ﬁve to ten minutes of individual
attention on most days. A properly organized teacher with a
regularclass containing an exceptional pupil can provide more
than ten minutes of individual attention to the exceptional
pupil without short-changing the non-exceptional pupils. So
not only is the learning environment better in a regular class,
but experience suggests that there are more opportunities for
individual attention.
g e- _ _. ._  Cu.-mama Camnouv Scnoors
,5?

