2'78
CONCLUSION
There are many questions still to be addressed, but it is an
ongoing process. We have learnedtoexamine how wedo things
and discum new stratep'es to cope with the situations that
arise overthe school year. This contrasts with our expectations
of last year when we thought we would somehow ﬁx Sue. We
achowledge that she has behaviours that might change, but
will not disappear; on the other hand, the supports in place
make her behaviours less frightening.
If we are to make changes that support the emstence of a
variety of learning styles and abilities within a single class-
room, we have to be prepared tochange our notions about what
is and is not feasible within our classrooms. Gentle Teaching
is one method of dispelling the mystique that surrounds
problem behaviours. We feel that this strategy is compatible
with our philosophy of equity and resmt for all students.
Gentle Teaching is an attitudinal stance, but is deeply
rooted in good teaching techniques, which involve ensuring
suomss with each learning task as well as full participaﬁon
and involvement. It is our contention that the process of
integraﬁon, the changes in methodology needed to nurture it
such as inclusion, collaboration, multi-level instruction, and
cooperative learning, and the Gentle Teaching philosophy are
naturally supportive of one another.
The two approaches used with Sue, Supportive Peer Rela-
tionships and Gentle Teaching, have fostered the social inclu-
sion of this most challenging youngster in the regular class-
room. They have given her the opportunity for interdepend-
ence with her peers and a richer lifestyle than most children
like Sue have because of their actions. It is important for her
to have friends, rather than being a lonely person deﬁned
solely in terms of her behaviour. Similarly, we have increased
the network of people who can work with Sue and with each
other - teachers, peers and parents. In return, Sue has
empowered us by increasing our competency. She has shown
Cnmonvc CANADIAN Scnoou; . _- s  -_
2?:

