265
As a follow-up to our planning sesm'on, a note went to
parents commending their child for supporﬁng a student in
their class. We had an ulterim motive £m' mnmng the note. We
mticipated some resistanm from parents, given Sue’s history
within the community. Moreover, we wanted to communicate
that this was something which the school valued and which
was important as part of the regular curriculum. In the note,
parents were asked that if they had any oonmrns about their
child's participation they should contact the school. Not one
parent phoned to indicate that they had any concerns.
Laterin the year. I asked a few students how their parents
felt about them helping Sue when it was known that she could
hurt others. '1‘hey told me that their parents told them “to be
careful” and “to just watch out.”
As part of our support to the students we felt it important
to give them an opportunity to discuss on a routine basis how
things were going. We usually met in the cafeteria at lunch-
time for these discussions and Sue usually joined us. The talk
never focused on Sue unless the students were asked direct
questions about how things were going. Right from the ﬁrst
meeting we could see that it was intuitive for the students to
include Sue but it required leadership on our part to get it
started.
Advocacy and Growth Among the Students
As groups usually do, this one took on a personality of its own
over the weeks. One of the intenesting developments was the
emergence of leaders. Kerri Ann, even at her young age, made
astute observations about Sue's program and seemed to insti-
gate many positive champs. Forexample, Kerri noted that the
aide or teachers didn’t seem to be giving Sue enough indepen-
dence. She said that as Sue's support group gained conﬁdence
they wanted to take more responsibility for Sue during wrtain
classes such as gm, library or free time. They wanted to play
with Sue alone in the school yard, or go to the library and read
to her and see if she would reciprocate. She asked why Sue
Cnmvcnvo Cmmmu Scnoots
285

