'78
centrd and lam system-centred. It is also achieved by
applying good integraﬁon t@niqum to all pupils.
In our smle for appropriate edumtion for “exceptional
students’ (the term used in our province for all pupils who
require an adapted progam) pamnm can seek out these
potential allim, make themaware thatwe areamm andwork
with them. 'I‘heycanworktocha@the systemfrominside,
while we work for change frm the outside. Experience has
shown that determined leadership and clear mls make a
pupil-centred school system a possibiﬁty.
In a 1 =='l-centred school the arguments for keeping pupils
with a IIII-.at-81 handicap out of the regular classroom have no
validity. So our semnd prindple, to educate all pupils together
in the same class, is a natural outcome of the ﬁrst
Our tmrd principle, to make the school system accountable
to the pupil, is also an extension of the ﬁrst prindple and is
stated separately as a reminder that the school system serves
parents and their children —we do not serve it. Too frequently
the school system blamm the pupil or the parents for whatever
goes wrong with the pupil’s education. When the school system
fails any pupil it must be held accountable for its failure. This
accountability encourages acceptance that the education of all
pupils is the joint responsibility of the school system, the
parents and their children.
Our fourth principle, to recognize that the real expert on a
pupil is usually his or her parent(s), is based on this joint
responsibility and applies to all pupils, not just those with a
disability. However, parent involvement is particularly
important in the case of a pupil with a mental handicap. Most
people in regular school systems have little or no experience
with such pupils. Moreover, there are relatively few pupils
with a mental handicap, and them is great variation between
them, which means teachers and administrators will lack
understanding of a particular pupil's capabilities. Rosi and I
know our son better than anyone else does; we know his
capabilities and how he learns best.
Cmwomc Camosw Scuoors ,_  g _ __ _
5 ')
to

