I
'70
hers, friends and advocatm. In the Elwood case, Luke was in
his neighbourhood school during the year befone his trial, and
his fellow students and classroom teacherbmame his greatest
allim. The evidence given by people clmmt to the child ran
contrary to the pmiﬁon taken by the school board, which no
doubt inspired the school maul to settle.
In cases where the minister of edumtion was implicatw,
the politics of the situation became critical. In the Margaret
Eggert case, wide-spread positive media coverage exerted
suﬁcient political prmsure to inﬂuence the decision in favour
of the child. In the Alexandra Hysert case, the attorney
general saw that the government policy on integation ran
counter to the position adopted in its defenm to the child’s
claim. The embmsment of the inconsistency compelled the
government to change sides, leaving the school hoard
disempowered.
In order for segregation, both dejure and do focto, to be
dismantled, it must he challengw on all ﬁnnts. While segre-
gation persists, the non-disabled community will never have
the opportunity to relate to people with disabilities as full and
participating citizens. One has only to visit a tmly integrated
school, speak to one of the educators responsible for the
implementation of an equality setting, or meet with any of the
students beneﬁtting from a situation where all children are
included, to truly appredate the result. There are some
Canadian jurisdictions that provide outstanding models.
As long as people must struggle in courts for inclusion,
others will continue to see disability as something negative
and treat people with disabiliﬁes ditierently. The stereotypi-
cal impression of people with disabilities, that they must
qualify to be anything but excluded and devalued, will eon-
tinue to be the norm.
School board administrators and ministers of education
must realize that legally sanctioned segregation has rendered
people with mental handicaps powerless and disadvantaged.
The equality requirement in the Charter is intended to, and
Cmucnvo Cmsoom Scnoots _. _ c
'7 U

