142
It should be accepted that not everyone who trim the
positionwillﬁndtmjobsuitable.Someteachersﬁndit
diﬁcult to switch to a eollahoraﬁve consultant role. Others
will ﬁnd theymissthe securityofawalarteachingassign-
ment and want to return toit. Areasmable kgree oftnrnover
should be welcomed md can prove beneﬁcial by bringing new
pwple with new ideas into the  Experience shows that
thm who leave the pmition return to the classrom with
improvedskillsandanemhancedperspecﬁveonmeeting
student's individual needs.
Teachers and principals in districts 28 and 29 indicated
that they neehd more training and experience to understand
theM&Rteacherrole.'IhisisessentialifM&Rteachersareto
p1aytheirpartintheprocessofinclum'on. Fortheprogramto
work well teachers need to gain an understanding of the value
of school integration and their responsibility in carrying it out.
Direct experience with s student with a dimbility appears to
be a critical psrtofthis process. Smsful  must
be sharedandtheidea thatintemtimisafadoracycle needs
to be put to rest.
M&R teachers identiﬁed a number of strategies they hm
found etfecﬁve in working with regular class teachers. It will
be important to share that information and develop addiﬁonal
approaches. Many principals also nwd to be more involved in
the program. Their parﬁcipation, understanﬁng and support
is critical. It's clear that when principals take an interest and
show leadership they can give the program the credibility it
takes to be successful.
It is important to consider the classmom practices that
facilitate the inclusion of students with disabilities. Instruc-
tional pracﬁces need to change. The reliance on teacher-
directed instruction and mastery of content does not en-
courage participation by students with disabilities and it is
questionable how much it bene fits other students. Progmssive
teaching methods like multi-level instruction, cooperative
learning, peer-tutoring, project work and activity-based learn-
Cnmcmc Cmmmu Scyoots _  g pi: g 4-
'15]

