264
to their class. Unanimously, they indicated that she did not,
but that she was someone who spent a lot of time in the
resource rmm. When asked how they thouﬂt they could start
including Sue, one boy said, “Saying hello in the morning.”
Weaaked,"What sortofthingsdoyouthinksuelikestodo
outside in the playground?‘ The children said, “Climbing,
lﬂmbackins.  sliﬁns. slaying with Puppets. bovine
other people besides her aide or teacher with her.”
We asked what thinm the students could do in the class-
room with Sue. They said, “Learning her numbers and letters,
cutting things out, craﬁs, picture mrds, pumzles.” We ques-
tionw them on activities Sue could do with them and they
replied, “Read, help her with her work, read to her, draw with
her, have one of us with her each day, write on the blackboard.”
When invited to help Sue with these activitim, all but two
of the children volunteered to help. We stressed during the
meeting that they were not to feel pressured into helping but
that if they wanted to make the mmmitment, they should
consider it to last the whole school year. We picked six students
arbitrarily to help support Sue at school. Within a few days of
the meeting, it was apparent that these students had commit-
ments which sometimes took them away from Sue. If students
were going to help her, it would require all the children in the
class.
We worried about initiating this process because, while we
were committed to the group, we were responsible for main-
taining safety and order in the school. Sue was known to strike
out at those around her. With the other children in Sue's class,
we discussed their ability to identify Sue's signs of anger. The
students spoke of ways to deﬂate a potential inddent and to
minimize the chanws of getting hurt, and of wh at to do if they
felt things were getting out of hand.
Most of the students admitted that they found it upsetting
when Sue got out of control. Twenty-one of the twenty-ﬁve
students indicwed that they were concerned about her anger
but didn't want to change their commitment to Sue.
Cmmcmc CANADIAN Scnoots _. to __
2 h ll

